INFORMATION, Culture, Arts and Sports Deputy Minister, Pauline Gekul has expressed Tanzania’s commitment to cooperate with Indonesia in cultural affairs for the benefit of the two nations. The deputy minister said that the two countries have enjoyed bilateral relationship for the past 67 years, thus it was the right time that more cultural activities like cultural exhibitions and cultural interactions are given emphasis for the countries to enjoy mutual benefits in cultural matters. “Already Tanzania and Indonesia have cultural similarities which unite their people, such as having one national language of Kiswahili and Bahasa respectively. Also, the two countries have numerous tribes but remain peaceful and their people remained united, thus the government welcomes more efforts to cement our cooperation,” she stated in Dar es Salaam recently as she officiated Indonesian cultural day commemorations. The deputy minister, therefore, said that it was high time youth from the two countries exchange cultural values by interacting with each other through sports, exhibitions and entertainment activities “I am informed that more than 1000 Indonesians have learnt Kiswahili language and that the embassy is from time to time organizing trainings on Bahasa language to Tanzanian youth, some of whom have secured university scholarships in Indonesia. I call upon Tanzanian youth to grab those opportunities,” she insisted. She however reminded Indonesians living in the country that learning Kiswahili language was of paramount importance because the language is growing steadily to become the official communication tool not only in East African Community (EAC) but also in the entire African continent. Earlier, the Indonesian Ambassador to Tanzania, Prof Ratlan Pardede said that it was time to strengthen cultural cooperation between the two countries for development purpose. The envoy said that his embassy has various development programmes which aim to promote economic development in different fields, but now finds it important to turn to sports, arts and culture for forging stronger ties. Located in western Asian continent, Indonesia is home to 265 million people and composed of 17, 0000 Islands. The country which has 714 tribes is united by Bahasa language which is