TANZANIAN Breweries Limited Plc (TBL) has removed all polyethylene terephthalate plastic (PET) from its production lines, in keeping with its commitment to sustainable and circular packaging. The decision is in line with TBL’s parent company AB In- Bev’s goal of 100 per cent of the product being in packaging that is returnable or made from majority recycled content by 2025. It is also aligned with the national Five-year Development Plan (FYDP III) goal of environmental sustainability and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The AB InBev’s Procurement Director for the East Africa Business Unit, Jacques Els said: “We are constantly seeking solutions to increase the recycled materials in our packaging in a way that makes sense from a business as well as a sustainability point of view. Our motivation goes beyond just the environmental impacts – circular packaging enables us to contribute to building economic security and resilience through the creation and support of networks of local businesses that improve livelihoods,” Although PET is recyclable, the proportion of recycled content in a finished product is typically lower than other materials such as glass or stainless steel, and PET contributes higher carbon emissions than other materials throughout its lifecycle. Plastic pollution in Tanzania not only poses a danger to environmental health it clogs water and sanitation systems, particularly in urban areas during the country’s rainy season. According to the World Bank, the world generates approximately 242 million tonnes of plastic waste each year. This waste clogs drains and waterways, causes respiratory issues when burned, shortens animal life spans and contaminates water bodies. Plastics take up to 500 years to decompose, instead of breaking down into microparticles which disrupt food chains and degrade natural habitats. TBL previously produced non-alcoholic malt beverage Grand Malt which is enjoyed by many men country-wide, in the PET format but has moved production of the popular beverage to a highly sustainable, light-weighted, stainless-steel, recyclable can. As a result, TBL has prevented 166 tonnes of virgin plastic and 10 tonnes of highdensity polyethylene (HDPE) from reaching Tanzanian consumers every year. The new sleek aluminium cans are 100 per cent recyclable and manufactured with 31 per cent recycled content.