THE government in collaboration with Benjamin Mkapa Foundation (BMF) has recruited 960 health workers and 1,986 Community Health Workers (CHW) to help in providing quality health services in the country. The recruitment took place between December last year to may 31 this year, and at least 19bn/- was spent for training and purchasing new health centres treating equipment. Minister of State, President’s Office Regional Administration & Local Government Ms Ummy Mwalimu said on Friday that the newly recruited health workers will help to provide health services to people in remote areas and other parts of the country. “The newly recruited health workers have signed contracts for a period of one year and above. This is a very important step in addressing the shortage of health services providers after building new hospitals and health centers in different parts of the country,” the Minister said in a speech read on her behalf by the Deputy permanent secretary in her ministry Dr Grace Maghembe. Minister Mwalimu clarified that the recruitment has come at the right time when the government is putting emphasis in combating communicable and non communicable disease. She said the new staff will also help in fighting Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The minister said that 595 out of 960 new employees, are employed through the project Strengthening Community Health systems, the Resilient Sustainable Systems for Health (RSSH) implemented by BMF under the auspices of the international Fund Fighting AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund). They will be assigned work centers in 75 Councils located in12 regions in mainland Tanzania. “other 365 hired employees together with 1,986 Community Health workers (CHW) have been distributed to 21 regions in mainland Tanzania with the aim of strengthening Maternal and child health care as well as the fight Covid-19,” The Chief Executive Officer of BMF Dr Ellen Mkondya Senkoro said the employed health workers may be integrated in the government employment system if they met set qualifications.