THIS is possibly the fourth time that this column carries an article on the subject of caning as a punishment. Years ago, some official in Kagera Region, caned teachers in front of their pupils. The teachers were accused of being undisciplined. There was an uproar, and that official has since gone into oblivion. Again, in Kagera, there was a teacher who caned a pupil accused of stealing money from the teacher’s handbag. The pupil died subsequent to the punishment. There was an outrage. A year or so ago, there was this flamboyant RC in Mbeya who, publicly, caned secondary school students. There was an uproar, but the RC received accolades from his employer for his action. Many thought he would be shown the door, during the recent reshuffle of RCs, but, no, he is well and steady in his appointment. Recently, a woman official publicly flogged those people who act as guide to beggars, pushing or leading them around in their quest for alms. Not much has been heard of this lady since that incident. In all these articles, on thing was noticeable. The word “cane” was mixed up with the word “can”. Writers were happy telling us that the victims were “canned”. However, in a recent caning incident, reported on page 3 of the Good Citizen (May 28) and titled: “Outrage as boy sustains bruises following caning”, the action of flogging is properly addressed as: “cane’, “caning”, or “caned” (and not: “can”, “canning”, or “canned”). So what happened? We join the writer as he opens up the story: “Caning of a student at the XXX School in Dar es Salaam has attracted the attention of various people, with the government calling upon the School Board to take appropriate action”. Half-way through the story we are told that: “For his part, Mr OI, teacher said to have administered the punishment, who doubles as the discipline master for the school admitted that he took the punishment too far”. You will agree with me that the reporting on teacher OI should carry a number of three letter words that are currently missing from the sentence. Here is our suggestion: “For his part, Mr OI, ‘the’ teacher said to have administered the punishment, ‘and’ who doubles as the discipline master for the school, admitted that he took matters too far”. Note as well that we have reduced the two “punishment’s” to one. The School Board is reported to have reacted: “In an online TV interview, ‘school’s board chairman’ HA admitted that the punishment ‘matted’ on the boy was severe”. I can see you raising eyebrows as to whether a punishment can be “matted”. We share your concern. A verb “to mat” does not seem to exist. “To mate” exists alright, but it does not transform into “matted”, when used to refer to the past, since the correct form then would be “mated”. In any case, “to mate” does not fit the circumstances of caning, the subject matter of the story. We are looking for a word which means something like administering a punishment. That word is: “To mete”, “to mete out”, which means: “to give a punishment to someone”. Its past form is “meted”. We can now revisit the reporting on what the School’s Board Chair said: “In an online TV interview, the School’s Board Chairman, HA, admitted that the punishment ‘meted’ (not: ‘matted’) on the boy, was severe”. {Note as well, that we have introduced a number of capital letters and punctuation marks in the sentence} Will teacher OI keep his employment following the incident? The Board Chair is reported to have said further: “The teacher has violated the terms of the contract between him and the school”. In other words, School XXX does not condone caning. We congratulate them for that. Corporal punishment is outdated and should be discouraged everywhere. The English saying: “Spare the rod, spoil the child”, could be translated to mean that you really have to punish an errant child, but that does not have to be caning. Have a nice weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com