LOCAL authorities, especially district councils have been reminded to ensure they effectively make use of electronic systems in revenue collection to help the government increase its collections to enhance development. Uhuru Torch Race leader, Lieutenant Josephine Mwambashi issued the reminder to district councils recently when she launched the project for the construction of the building for fisheries resources protection groups in Kipumbwi ward in Pangani district, Tanga region. She said some officials of the councils have apparently been tampering with systems of revenues collection, thus denying earnings to the government. She said for the government to be able to bring the desired development to people, councils must effectively adopt and use electronic systems in collecting all sorts of revenue payable to the government. “Despite having this good building, it will be useless if you don’t have proper mechanism of managing revenues collection, something which will contribute in delaying development to our country. I urge all of you to be part in mobilizing funds for the country’s growth,” Lt Mwambashi said. Earlier, reading the report on the project, Acting District Livestock Officer, Aristark Kimario said the construction of the office building was an implementation of the South West Indian Ocean Fisheries Governance and shared Growth (SWIOFish) Project which is implemented by the World Bank (WB) through the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. He said the project is aimed at protecting, controlling and conserving fisheries resources and helping to have a sustainable marine environmental protection plan in the area in collaboration with the government. Kimario said the implementation of the project was being carried out in five councils of Chalinze, Mkinga, Lindi, Bagamoyo, and Pangani to enable the groups have offices to conduct their activities. “These offices will help them enhance their activities of fisheries resource management as well as bringing their services closer to the people,” said Kimario. For his part, Acting Pangani District Commissioner Toba Nguvila said the Uhuru torch race has toured seven projects, worth 1.5bn/-, in the district.