WHENEVER we are buying or hiring any goods or service, in that situation the most important factor to be looked into seriously will be the “unit price” of that commodity or the service we intend to take. Thus it is important for us to clearly understand the dynamics of the “Unit Price” while buying any goods or services. If you ignore the key point as to how the unit price of any products is determined, what factors can impact the unit price of a product [from one market to another market], then you will end up buying goods or services at a higher price which is nothing but drain on your disposable income. In today’s business parlance every product or service has a unit price. This is the price at which the ‘seller’ is offering the product to a ‘buyer’. And now comes the most important question – does the unit price of a particular product differ across different markets, localities, cities, countries or continents? It is very easy to answer this question as we know with certainty that the unit price of a particular product differs from one location to another and from one shop to another. But do we recognize this fact of ‘differential unit price’ before we decide to buy a particular product? Most often not, and thus we end up buying things at a price that may not be truly representative of the prevailing market conditions. To understand this simple logic let us take a practical example of our daily shopping. We all buy various vegetables for our household use. There are different places one can buy vegetables. Somebody must be having a small shop near to their home selling vegetables. You walk a little far and there is a supermarket selling the same vegetables. Another option could be to visit the usual vegetable market located in your area. And then there are other vegetable markets located in different parts of the city. All basic things being equal [i.e. vegetable type and quality], do you think the “unit price” will be the same across all markets/places? Certainly not, because it is a known fact that unit price is likely to differ from one location to another. And mind it; the referred unit price may not be different marginally but “drastically”. You may easily buy one kg potato by paying Tzs. 2,500/-, whereas at some other market/ location the unit price for potato may be hovering at around Tzs. 3,500/- per kg. From the above, you would observe that the unit price is not different marginally but drastically i.e. from 2,500 to 3,500]. Despite this startling revelation, some buyers are happily doing their daily shopping [of different goods] at a price that does not represent the prevailing market conditions. While practising such an uninformed shopping spree, one may think that he/she is the “king or queen” as we often hear that “customer is the real king”. But this category of customers [i.e. those who buy things at exorbitant prices] can’t call themselves as king or queen, because if they keep practising this kind of shopping, days are not very far when they could be a “pauper”. So what emerges out of this discussion? Nothing, but the important lesson on money matters i.e. the unit price is the real king (or queen) in any commercial transaction. For many years some of us have been buying things without recognizing the fact that the unit price of a product should be the main determining factor’ to our decision of buying or not buying that particular product. If you rewind, can you imagine how much money you might have wasted [or lost] till this date? Alternatively, if this money could have been saved & invested, over time it would have got transformed into a substantial amount, which you couldn’t even have imagined. If by any chance you would have had this money [which in reality has been wasted by not recognizing the importance of unit price], then you were entitled to pat your back to have saved your hard-earned money. So better late than never, start recognizing the fact that ‘unit price’ of any product should be adopted as one of the key determinants of our decision to buy or not to buy a particular product.