PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has made changes in the Police Force, promoting the Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police SACP Camillus Wambura to a rank of Commissioner of Police (CP), before appointing him the new Director of Criminal Investigation (DCI). CP Wambura replaces Robert Boaz, who has served the position since November, 2016. President Samia, who is also the Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, also promoted Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Hamad Khamis Hamad, to the Commissioner of Police and appointed as the new Commissioner of Finance and Logistics in the Tanzania Police Force. Prior to his latest appointment, Mr Wambura served briefly as the Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander while Mr Hamad was the Deputy Director of Criminal Investigation at the Police Head Offices in Zanzibar. Wambura had served as the Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander for only 14 days, following the mini reshuffle made by the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro on May 17th, this year. He previously served as the Head of the Operations and Criminal Unit. Meanwhile, President Samia has revoked the appointment of the Simiyu Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Azza Hamad. Ms Azza, who had been appointed to the post last Saturday, is replaced by Prisca Kayombo, according to a statement issued by the Director of Presidential Communications, Gerson Msigwa on Sunday. Prior to her appointment, Ms Kayombo was the Head of Administration and Human Resources at the Ministry of Finance and Planning. The statement said that Ms Azza, who once served as a Special Seats Member of Parliament from Shinyanga region, will be assigned other duties. The new appointees will be sworn in tomorrow at the Chamwino State House, Dodoma, the statement read in part. Some of the appointees who will take oath before President Samia include 11 new RAS who are; Rodrick Mpogolo (Katavi), Dr Athumani Kihamia (Arusha), Hassan Rugwa (Dar es Salaam), Dr Fatuma Mganga (Dodoma) and Mussa Chogello (Geita). Others are Mr Ngusa Samike (Mwanza), Eng Mwanaisha Tumbo (Coast region), Doroth Mwaluko (Singida), Amb Batilda Buriani (Shinyanga), Prisca Kayombo (Simiyu) and Pili Mnyema (Tanga). Also taking oath of office will be nine RASs who have been posted to the other working stations. They include Dr Seif Shekilage, who has been transferred to Kilimanjaro from Songwe, Karoline Mthapula, who has been transferred from Mara to Manyara and Albert Msovela, from Shinyanga to Mara. Other are; Dr Angelina Lutambi from Mbeya to Morogoro, Abdallah Malela from Katavi to Mtwara, Ms Judica Omari from Tanga to Njombe, Denis Bandisa from Geita to Rukwa, and Missaile Musa from Manyara to Songwe. The list of new appointees also include Chief Executive Officer of Fair Competition Commission (FCC) Mr William Erio and the Director General of Workers Competition Fund (WCF) Dr John Mduma.