THE discrepancy in the lending interest rate charged by banks in Tanzania is a matter of great concern to all the major business mind investors in the economy. Businessperson unhappy about the rate of interest charged by Tanzanians based banks and across microfinance institutions, if lined up and asked to air their views and challenges faced, the outcome could not only be outrageous but could help to expound why it is hard to do steady business in Tanzania specifically amongst SMEs perceived as the engine of country economic growth in many aspects. Thus why, the high borrowing interest rate charged by banks i.e. microfinance banks, commercial banks, SACCOS and now VIKOBA continued to raise many questions for the policymakers, comprising politicians who overwhelmingly and unanimously endorsed the final fiscal budget for 2021/22 after the government clearing up of what were termed as thorny issues. Sanctioned budget for 2021/22 has been raised to 36.68tri/-from the 36.3tri/- plans that were suggested by Finance and Planning Minister. Much as its execution is clear, a re-examination of scenery at which it will be executed and interlink with predominant overall financial architects prevailing in Tanzania will matter to its realization. Devoid of being taken into details of planned undertakings and execution-style, it is my belief, envisioned Tanzania economy will be built by Tanzanians since that is their responsibility. But this onus to work out with a win-win state of affairs, gain access to capital and costs associated with, in my view is the matters of concern particularly environment that would permit loans to small enterprises at affordable rates. The applicable lending interest rate indicates the cost of borrowing funds from banks for business makes it critical for the expansion of economic activity in a country. To the best of my knowledge, a low-interest rate is good if managed in the approved manner. Managed properly, low-interest rate leads to demand of the country’s currency, thus making import from the country cheaper to the outside market, while at the same time, domestically, low-interest rate makes the cost of capital cheaper, and, thus, encourage businesses to expand in the short-run. Alternatively, a high interest rate may perhaps be good as a tool to cope with the domestic economy if there is a sign of inflation. A high-interest rate will result in constricted fiscal supply in the economy because individuals would put money in the bank to earn interest. Even though businesses would not borrow to expand when the interest rate is high, principally and generally, a high-interest rate may possibly occur after lengthy growth that would lead to inflation. Harmonizing high and low is important especially for the kind of economy Tanzania is on. The challenge however is to know when to intervene and knowing the right moment. This is the sense of duty of the central bank. It must meticulously screen the economy and know the right moment when to announce changes of interest rate to reflect the condition in the economy. While it is evident that the lending rate is crucial for the progress and development of all types of business activities, the most important thing is to tell apart the determining factor of the lending rate that unfortunately are relatively high and integrated banking sector regulated by a central bank is yet to offer a good way out on lowering down rates. Unquestionably, the major role of a banking system is to galvanize and channel assets to the real zones of the economy. This proposes that a rigorous financial system rewards the investors for their share when these entrepreneurs can easily access loans at rational interest rates that ultimately can help to boost and encourages further investment. It is the investment that builds the economy, it is the investment that provides job opportunities and it is the investment that pays tax to government fiscal which is used to finance social projects, some not unpleasant to the private sector due to its nature or due to other national security reasons. Therefore due to the vital role of banks in capital formation, banks should be more closely scrutinized in the economy with the interest rate offered to investment onlookers. I stand to be corrected but my assessment to date, show that lending rates of moneymaking commercial banks determine profitability. But higher lending rates have remained a problematic issue and been difficult to deal with as also noted in the media by an expert whose comment was on the need to what was described as to seek ye first “truer” interest rates reduce. Conferring to Bankable partner Ivan Tarimo, more than a few initiatives that could help investors to see truer rates in the market were outlined to include issues ranging from transparency, legislation, follow the leader example, technology advancement and consumer protection etc. closing with an assessment of thoughtfulness mix of creativities that would help many to see true rates, rates that should answer and echo prevalent market interest rate charged conditions. Many don’t realise but when looking at a bigger picture high interest rates are a barrier to economic development. Based on this fact, unless the central bank of Tanzania totally does something on interest rates, mooring Tanzania into wished-for middle and perhaps upper-middle-income status as per World Bank standards will take superfluous more time to realize. The late Prof. Tolly Salvatory Augustine Mbwette, while servicing as vice-chancellor at the Open University of Tanzania (OUT) used to resonate in many get-together management meetings, while employed a senior economics lecturer at the economic department that, no research no right to speak. Remarks, assessment and judgment articulated in this discussion about which is better for the emerging Tanzania economy as far as low or highinterest rates is a concern is based on research carried out between the first quarters of 2015 to last quarter of 2020 on the driving factors of lending rate amongst lending institutions in Tanzania also matching with rates untaken by similar institutions within the East African region. The exploration to hammer down issues in its angles examined scale and the effects of Basel III on the interest rates and its repercussion on capital adequacy, asset quality, and investment to an asset, and loan to an asset, deposits to an asset, management efficiency and liquidity in an attempt to unravel how they could affect the lending interest rate that was already at the roof. Endeavour to throw my verve into bank’s aptitude on business loans and interest rates charged and cry laboured by entrepreneurs pursuing loans from banks for their projects establishment or expansions were prompted to the fact that there haven’t been many dive in the wool study with heavy-handed practical hands-on know-how to examine the determinants of lending interest rate and perhaps consequences of rates offered at T-bills and T-bonds and their relationship with interest rates changed when banks offer loans. Without been addicted to the facet of five years study’s conclusion, in a modest way, it is enough to argue, it is time for those answerable and in charge to concoct mechanisms that would minimize or provide solution on how bank’s high interest can be managed to be aware that the scarcity of longterm credit to an economy is a stumbling block to economic growth in a multi-dimensional way. Two, the scarcity of longterm credit especially to the private sector caused amongst other things high cost of borrowing from lenders is one of the most important impediments to their industrialist’s new setups and expansions. Three, the long-term credit to private sector accessibility is also profound to the growth level of a country’s financial and legal institutions and the manner in which the regulator of financial institutions particularly banks conduct their costing that also affects interest rates charged. This commentary examines the determinants of bank short and long-term lending to businesses focusing on the cost of funding. By scrutinizing banklevel timesheet data given to borrowers it was clear interest rates charged could be lower if transparency on the manner in which cost of bowing is reached within banks. It is not a sin for banks to make a profit, but more profit can be made when credit to borrowers is more accessible to many borrowers at relatively low rates as opposed to prevailing market interest rates charged by banks in Tanzania. The central bank has to step in on these changes before it is too late, as Tanzania needs to grow. My plea to BOT is to work towards sustaining interest rate at a low rate, if possible single digit and make sure that the rate is stable. In my assessment, this will take care of the liquidity ratio amongst banks and financiers will be encouraged to obtain funds from financial institutions to invest in the economy.