YOUNG Africans said they will wait for the final report from Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi, before starting to line up which players they should release and sign ahead of next season duels. The Jangwani Street based club are already on the ground preparing for their remaining five Mainland Premier League matches of the season plus their Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) semi-final clash against Biashara United. Speaking in Dar es Salaam, the club's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli narrated that the coach's report will give them clear guidelines on which players they should go for. "We have been making mistakes when it comes to signing new players as most of them when they come, find it difficult to fit in the system of the coach, that is why, we want him to be fully engaged. "Apparently we have not started thinking of possible players to join the club even though, there are many speculations out there of players linked to join us next season," Bumbuli said. About the chase for the top flight league championship, Bumbuli said mathematically, they have not given up as they have five games in hand before winding up the season. "Until now, we are on second place and when we play equal games with them (Simba), it will give us a clear picture of which side will be guaranteed to lift the trophy...but for now, we have not given up," said Bumbuli. Giving an update on Mukoko Tonombe's injury he sustained while playing for his national team -- DR Congo side friendly match against Tunisia, Bumbuli said the player is responding well to treatment. "We have communicated with him and he said he is doing well. Next, the doctors of the two teams will chat to determine the extent of his injury and see for how long he will spend off the pitch nursing his injury," he said. Tonombe is one of the two foreign based players for Yanga who earned an international call up for his country while the other is Yacouba Sogne, who was included in the Burkina Faso recent national team squad. From 29 League matches played, Yanga stay glued to the second slot with 61 points, six points behind leaders Simba, who have amassed 67 points in their 27 encounters. On third place are Azam, who have garnered 60 points after 30 matches, while Biashara United and KMC fills up fourth and fifth slots with 45 and 41 points respectively. This means the fight for the second place this season will be an interesting marathon since next season, the league's runners up will play in CAF Champions League (CAF CL), so as the first place occupants.