WITH three weeks remaining before Tanzania hosts the Africa Kabaddi Championship, the national teams moved into camp over the weekend, to prepare for the event. The national kabaddi men and women teams’ residential is camp based at Nguva, Kigamboni in Dar es Salaam. Tanzania Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) Chairman, Abdallah Nyoni told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations for the event are on top gear. He said that the annual tournament organised by TKSA in collaboration with Africa Kabaddi Confederation (AKC), is scheduled to be held from June 29th to July 5th this year at Mlimani City, Dar es Salaam. Nyoni said both teams are in good shape and eager to stamp their authority in the fourth coming tournament. “The teams moved into residential camp to finalise their training programmes that started since last year. “We have strong teams but we must train to the optimum to stand a chance of winning the championship...  we must utilise home advantage to ensure the titles remaines in the country,” he said. Tanzania men’s team boosts with two professionals including captain Joseph Lusinde and Imraan Nyoni, though the chairman said most of players also  have competition experience. He is confident that Tanzania will be a formidable team. Others men’s team members in camp are Masudi Tindwa, Roland Aswile, Best Ibrahim, Joseph Mkinga, Musa Mustafa, Said Ramadhani, Juma Hamza, Abdul Ally, Hassan Ally, Shija Bujibu, Shigela Magobo, Masanja Mtemi, Athumani James and Manase Madusa. According to Nyoni ladies team players include Zuhura Ally (captain), Happiness Gribelt (vice-captain), Nsara Mkima, Mwanahamis Juma, Agnes Alfan, Zuwena Hassan, Jane Msafiri, Mezea Abdallah, Sauda Msamwili, Marry Maiko, Janet George, Upendo Yunus, Aziza Juma, Zaitun Abdallah, Aneth Mosha and Christina Amani. Tanzania teams will battle it out against their counterpart Kenya, Egypt, Cameroon, Zimbabwe and Mauritius, who have all confirmed to bring their teams so far. Nyoni, who was recently also elected as AKC president following the sudden resignation of former AKC president Harish Kumar of Mauritius, added that Nigeria, Ghana and South Africa will not bring teams due to coronavirus outbreak, but they will attend the Africa Kabaddi Board meeting that will be held during the competition. He said that Tanzania that hosts the event for the first time, was still looking for sponsors, calling on sports well-wishers to come forward and support the tournament.