AROUND the world, ineffective and even fraudulent leadership remains a cardinal concern in the public square. Recent hot debate and discussions about young people’s failure in providing leadership in my country speaks of this fear. In fact, young and other leaders’ non-accomplishment is one of the fundamental reasons why calls for developing ethical leaders for common good both in my country and across the continent cannot be ignored or silenced. I personally strongly believe that leadership stands as a major issue that cannot be swept under the carpet because many agree that thought leadership is the challenge of the 21 century. In my column today, I look at the need for leaders with rational thinking, moral integrity and ethical standing who work to create a country, continent and the world for everybody. My interest is in the trust that many have in young people and the trust that has been put on them even though it is misused. I want my reader to rediscover with me the hope and anticipation in young leadership. To begin my reflection, I must indicate that there is no doubt that the need for effective leadership in Tanzania, Africa and the world is high. I presume it is high because in principle, doing good in leadership matters a lot because it is also good for our democracy. No wonder whenever both young and junior or senior and experienced leaders fail our people, we automatically expect escalated citizens’ demands for greater transparency and accountability, and civil society actors fiercely responding in order to close the gap and meet that need. But why and how should there still be hope in young leaders? Well, young leaders we see today seriously underperforming can only exceed their current levels of performance by developing their untapped prospects and potential. But why young leaders? Well, there is a strong reason to this submission. First and foremost, many studies have shown that the youth is a crucial segment of population for the African continent. For example, it is known that more than 50 percent of the population of Africa is under the age of twenty-five. This means that Africa has the youngest population of all continents. In other words, Tanzania, like Africa, has youth on its side creating the potential for innovation for a locally available workforce. So, by strengthening our young peoples’ leadership skills, they could improve the way they should lead and will eventually be able to strengthen their prospects for sustainable growth and prosperity of their societies. There is hope therefore because Tanzania and Africa at large has traditionally been known to be the cradle of great leadership. We know that many African leaders we cherish today, say for example Nelson Mandela, Kwame Nkrumah, Steve Biko, and Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, to name a few, are not only well known around the world, but they all began as strong young people in leadership. And the hope in young leaders is not a new phenomenon. It has been with us for centuries. We read in Holy Books, like the Bible; The glory of young men is their strength, and the honour of old men is their grey hair. Proverbs 20:29. We also read, Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity. 1 Timothy 4:12 From a similar tone, an American educator Mary Jane McLeod Bethune 1875 - 1955 was right when she wrote; we have a powerful potential in our youth, and we must have the courage to change old ideas and practices so that we may direct their power toward good ends. And in a more related observation, fellow American, writer and novelist Pearl Sydenstricker Buck 1892- 1973, aptly reminds me and my reader today that the young do not know enough to be prudent, and therefore they attempt the impossible, and achieve it, generation after generation. So young people have to be regarded with respect. How do you know that his or her future will not be equal to our present? asked Confucius 551 BC - 479 BC the Chinese philosopher and politician. But we have a problem. Among many is what I would say is traditional. Indeed, it is unfortunate that traditionally, talented young leaders have not received much structured support for developing their full leadership potential. I will explain. Let me explore this by reverting back to primal questions. Could there really be hope in young peoples’ leadership in our country? Should there be more appointments made especially from those professionals and from whom we can groom to become great team players, very loyal who can eventually be promoted to become team leaders with outstanding qualities? So, before raising much hope, the general public should first of all understand why today the demand for effective and systematic leadership development in our country and Africa is growing more rapidly than ever before. If I was to give a simple and straight answer, I could simply say, we should not ignore a critical shortage of upcoming young leaders as a fact which is responsible for the underdevelopment of many societies today. This means that we need to do more. Having put trust in them, the task which remains is to mentor them so that they become highly skilled at putting other people not only at ease but at their heart first, help them become fast and agile or rather quick learners, and able to lead in diverse environments in this changing leadership trajectory. To be successful in this special endeavor, current senior leaders should take the lead in transferring knowledge and coaching subordinates because if this is done wholeheartedly, these young leaders will become resourceful and will be able to find creative solutions to problems of wananchi. It is these young leaders whom we should groom who will have a sense of high focus on outcomes and getting things done for the wellbeing of the people. But here is a warning to young leaders, they should know that leading is never an easy proposition. Add being young to leadership and young leaders can easily feel overwhelmed. This said however, I know very well that to move forward on such a project of preparing young leaders, the problem of intimidating philosophies should be addressed. What I mean when speaking to discouraging and poisonous philosophy is that many people continue to look at the leadership in Tanzania and Africa negatively. Yes, they far too often present African leadership to the world in the form of dysfunctional and derailed leadership. I wish to encourage young leaders that we have an abundance of sound and responsible leaders on all levels and dimensions of society. What is needed is for you to emerge and become visible. So, let our hope in young leaders remain firm. Let us not lose it when we see a few messing. Let us invest in youth leadership development because this is a key leverage point in the development and transformation of mother Tanzania and Africa at large. I can see, my country needs solid youth development principles. But let us first acknowledge the full potential of youth and put trust in them. Cheers! ● Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania PO Box 47 Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: +255 767 233 997