SCIENTISTS say the human heart beats about 72 times a minute, but in that same time, a hibernating frog’s heart beats just five times and a hummingbird’s heart reaches 1,260 beats per minute during flight and make the heart to be one of complicated organ in the animal’s kingdom. The human heart weighs about 0.3 kilograms, but a giraffe’s heart weighs about 12 kilograms, since the organ needs to be powerful enough to pump blood up the animal’s long neck. The human heart is about the size of a fist while a cow’s heart is the size of a human head but the largest animal heart is the blue whale’s, which has been weighed at about 450 kilogrammes. But the animal with the largest heart to body mass ratio is found in the dog family because the African hunting dog’s heart enables it to run between 72 and 130 kilometers per hour for one meter. Different researches indicate all reptiles have three-chambered hearts with one exception. Crocodilian hearts have four chambers, but unlike mammals they have an extra flap that can close to keep blood from going to the lungs. Researchers believe the blood can be sent to the stomach to aid digestion, which is just a splash helpful when bones are often on the menu. Meanwhile, an electric powered vehicle achieves top speed of 60 kilometers per hour after 10 seconds but in the savannah cheetah burst into a top speed of 110 kilometers per hour after 3 seconds only. The spotted cat sprints like nobody on the land thanks to its long and flexible legs which are able to be stretched up to minimum of four meters for a single leap. From one point to another, the overstretched legs are powered efficiently by muscles for wide leaps, each measuring up 7.6 meters. These are one of the most extended leaps on the land which propels the cheetah to the top speed of 110 kilometers per hour after the cat jumps forward not less than three times. Some scientists use the word “burst” when they talk about cheetahs’ speed because at the time it reaches its top speed, its body stays longer on air than on the ground. Among mammals of savannah, the speed of cheetah is an energy demanding pace which needs a powerful and flexible respiratory lungs system. The cheetah is equipped with an efficient nervous system which controls requirement of oxygen as the source of energy to any living organism. Plants, animals and bacteria use fresh air to produce energy for growth and other activities including running for two or four legged mammals. The system works in conjunction with a mechanism called chemoreceptors which deters levels of body chemicals with high elements of carbon and triggers the inhalation to pump in fresh air. To get a clear picture look at this. when a cheetah is in a resting position, the rate of inhalation is 60 times per one minute but goes three times higher up to 150 per minute when chasing a prey. The cheetah achieves these rapid changes due to the flexibility and strength of a diaphragm which powers its large lungs to breathe out carbon and inhale oxygen. When a cheetah breaths in, the diaphragm contracts to allow a quick expansion of ribs which apply pressure to create a vacuum for fresh air. The cheetah deep chest allows bigger room for gas exchange which is enabled with leopard, the cheetah has a shorter body with longer tail which bears the balance when the cat maneuvers in a quick speed. The efficiency of cheetah’s respiratory system is built on wide nostrils which allow a large amount of fresh air to pass into the lungs. Before reaching the lungs, on the fore head, there are four chambers which accumulate enough air before allowing a smooth inhalation. These chambers are called paranasal sinuses and are located two in each side of the fore head and works to warm and moisturise the air for a quick inhalation. The two chambers also remove unwanted particles such as dust and fine stones which are being thrown on its way as the cheetah is chasing a speedy antelope. From the two chambers, the fresh air passes though larynx, a pipe which is built with strong muscle, to carry oxygen to internal organs of the cheetah. These include the trachea which is divided into two smaller branches which transport the fresh air through smaller pipes which discharge it to the lungs. Just like in other mammalian bodies, the lungs work as air cleaners into the cheetah body as it removes fine particles which managed to escape from the air chamber or paranasal sinuses. Inside the cheetah body, the deoxygenated blood from the heart passes through pulmonary artery which also filters its haemoglobin and from haemoglobin through pulmonary veins, the blood carries fresh air to the heart where the distribution system starts. This is the circulatory system which works to transport the blood in a closed network that circulates the precious and ich liquid from one point to another without leaking it out. This system works repeatedly from the starting to the ending point and from birth to the death of the cheetah. On the other hand, scientists call this system pulmonary circulation as it transports the blood in a closed network that circulates the precious and rich liquid from one point to another without leaking it out. This system works repeatedly from the starting to the ending point and form birth to the death of the cheetah. This enables the system to deliver blood full of oxygen and other nutritious materials to the muscles which stretches to achieve the longest leap in the savannah. Scientists say these achievements depend on the flexibility of muscles in the body of a cheetah. The muscles work though anaerobic system which helps the body of a cheetah to remove quickly all unwanted materials in a unique way. This is because the muscles of a cheetah are built to use a small amount of oxygen that gives its body a special flexibility over and above many other animals of the savannah. Scientists say the heart beats produce high temperature which is a result of production of energy and its consumption within the cheetah’s body. This energy enables the cheetah to sprint in a flash speed which covers a distance of more than 457.2 meters where it captures most of its prey. As a super predator, a cheetah prefers to hunt mammalian herbivores which weigh below 40 kilograms. This is unique desire which makes an agile Thomson’s gazelle its prime target. When a gazelle manages to outsmart a cheetah for more than 548.64 meters, the cat will be forced to abandon the chase to cool its body. The cheetah is the smartest super predators which hunts its prey after spotting it from 10 to 30 meters away before embarking in one minute chase for kill. Cheetah is an athlete equipped with special mechanism that is able to absorb temperature before it goes above 40.5˚c or 104.9˚F when the cat is within 375 meter of the chase. It is a skillful sprinter that knows, if it pushes on the chase, it wil