THE government has asked the public to report names of officials, who solicit bribes from local contractors so that they are awarded tenders. Making the appeal during the Contractors Registration Board (CRB) fourth consultative meeting in Lake Zone in Mwanza on Thursday, Minister for Works and Transport, Dr Leonard Chamuriho further said that the government will make sure the whistle blowers are protected. He said that when a contractor secures the tender through corruption means, he/ she normally fails to complete the project on time and sometimes, the project is implemented below standards. “Give us names of those government officials who solicit bribe from you, so that we deal with them. We assure you of full protection, no one is going to stop you from getting tenders because you shared important information,” pointed out the minister. Equally, he urged local contractors to go for joint ventures so that they could be able to take big projects, which require big capital and manpower. “We will be happy to see local contractors taking big projects that mean billions of shillings will remain here in the country,” he said. Dr Chamuriho further said: “Don’t be selfish, but go for joint ventures because if you join hands it is where you get muscles to compete with foreign companies, because even those foreign companies which secure big projects here are in joint ventures from their countries.” In a related development, the Minister also commended CRB Registrar, Eng Rhoben Nkori and Chairperson Eng Consolatha Ngimbwa for playing a big role in building the capacity of local contractors. On her side, the Chairperson of CRB, Eng Ngimbwa commended the minister for gracing the occasion and supporting the board in several ways. She said CRB was eagerly waiting for the government’s response on the use of force account, when paying contractors adding that local contractors have already been trained on how to fill the force account documents. Force account is the dollar value of labour, materials and equipment at the rate the public agencies charge themselves. Labour cost calculations are based on the entity’s actual cost of labour and in this case, force account limits do not apply to maintenance work.