THE World Bank (WB) Africa Group One Constituency has expressed satisfaction over implementation of the Tanzania Productive Social Safety Net (PSSN) project under the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF). Making the revelation, its Executive Director Dr Taufila Nyamadzabo noted that the group has been impressed by the implementation, terming it splendid. Dr Nyamadzabo said the project proved to be one of the best ways to reduce poverty in the country, thus the WB considers increasing funding it. He gave the remarks here after a field visit to PSSN II projects at Mwaja-Mtaa in Dodoma City Municipality, yesterday. He said the World Bank remains committed to continuing supporting TASAF, where they have a plan to increase the funds, because it has been transforming the lives of many people and boosting development. Elaborating, Dr Nyamadzabo said he has visited four countries of Sudan, South Sudan, Kenya and Tanzania where similar programmes are being undertaken, but realized that Tanzania is much ahead of the countries. He noted that TASAF is in line with the WB’s two main objectives of poverty reduction and development promotion, saying: “Tanzania has made a lot of progress in terms of enrolment and achievements in comparison to other countries.” The director added that one of the success stories is that TASAF beneficiaries are given time to assess themselves and continue with the programme or pitch to another form, adding that it is evident that they have reached a better level of economic income address. “Another proof is the availability of food, where people can afford three meals per day and the extent of health, where people get healthy food are some key great points of the programme,” pointed out the Executive Director. He also cited improvement in the education or school attendance by children of the beneficiaries as another milestone, noting that the capacity to increase pupils’ enrolment in schools from 60 to 98 percent was a significant achievement. Earlier, TASAF Executive Director, Ladislaus Mwamanga maintained that throughout the years, the PSSN program has contributed to the economic growth of the country in many spheres. Mr Mwamanga pointed out that the achievement is hinged on the support the program has been receiving from the government and Development Partner (DPs) such as World Bank among the many others. Some 1,200,000 of those registered in the Production Social Safety Net (PSSN) will be engaged in several projects. He said the aim of PSSN is to empower poor households to increase income and have access to social services such as food, education and health among others Mwamanga said some 30,000 projects will be implemented nationwide by the beneficiaries of the programme. “The projects are aimed at uplifting economic status of the beneficiaries, being part of the plan to enable them to form saving groups” he said, adding that through such groups, beneficiaries have saved over 5.9 bn/-, and revolving within their groups. The director explained that until the end of the first phase that ended in 2019, there were a total of 23,000 groups with 311,000 members and contributed 5.9bn/- that they shared as loans among themselves. He said there are households, whose members will benefit directly by working on projects like digging dams, construction of road infrastructure. One of the TASAF beneficiaries, Winfrida Mbago who was visited by a team of officers from TASAF expressed joy, saying through the programme she has managed to do a lot of things. She said since joining the programme in 2014, she started getting 20,000/- after every two months and used to save 10,000/- every time she received the money. After raising 70,000/-, she bought six chickens which later produced 25 chickens. Ms Mbago told the delegates that she sold the chicken, raising 250,000/- that she later used to buy three pigs which reproduced further and kept selling some to get money for other activities. “I have managed to build a house, connect water into my compound and do several other things from the money that I get from TASAF” she said. TASAF (III) was launched in 2012 for ten years’ implementation to 2023 to be run in two terms of five years with the aim of reducing poverty in the country.