PRIME Minister, Mr Kassim Majaliwa has called for lifestyle change among members of the public, encouraging them to have time for exercises to improve their health. He gave the call yesterday during a sports bonanza organised by the Premier Office, National Assembly and CRDB Bank at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. During the event which started with a walk from Bunge grounds to Jamhuri Stadium, public servants, CRBD Bank workers, Members of Parliament public servants and several residents of Dodoma, were engaged in exercises, as well as a number of sports discipline, which were on offer. Officiating, Mr Majaliwa said it was high time the public opt for routine exercises, which apart from helping them to become fit physically, it has positive impact for the mental health, as well as get rid of Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs). During the bonanza dubbed as ‘CRDB Bank Pamoja Bonanza’ Premier Majaliwa said majority of public servants are victims of NCDs, which are sourced by the lifestyle and shying away from exercises. “This bonaza has been staged to mobilise public servants on the need to train and do exercises regularly for the betterment of our health,” he said, adding that exercises also improve work performance. He said to get rid of NCDs, the public must adhere to taking proper meals, engage sports activities such as jogging and other exercises, as the diseases consume government coffers a lot, while it can be prevented. Premier Majaliwa advised cultural officers countrywide, to come up with a strategy to mobilise the community to form sports clubs, so that majority can be enticed and be part of the routine exercises. On his part, CRDB Bank Pls Managing Director, Mr Abdulmajid Nsekela said they will be stage such sports bonanza regularly, as they believe in a healthy body and health mind for a vibrant and productive societies. He said they will stage a CRDB Bank marathon in Dar es Salaam in August this year, as they promote the importance of societies to participate in sports. Mr Nsekela said the money to be raised during the marathon, will be channeled towards supporting children at JKCI with cardiac problems and cannot afford the expenses for surgery as well as cancer patients at the Ocean Road Cancer Institute.