A passenger bus christened Kandahar that plies between Karagwe district, Kagera region and Arusha town caught fire on Friday with the state of passengers on board still unknown. However, the exact number of passengers who were travelling in the bus was not immediately established. Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC), Revocatus Malimi told reporters yesterday that the accident involved a bus with registration number T923 DCT that plies between Karagwe and Arusha town. He explained that the accident happened in the early morning hours at Kitengule forest. However, he did not give further details, especially with regard to the conditions of passengers. "Police have been sent to the scene of the accident. Until now we do not have details regarding the passengers. More details will be released later," he said. The accident comes hardly five days after a tragic road accident that claimed the life of former Bukoba District Commanding Officer (OCD), Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Babu Sanare. SSP Sanare died instantly when a car he was travelling in overturned at Igara village in Sengerema district on Sunday morning. On October 24, last year 16 passengers died in a tragic road accident that claimed 16 lives in Ngara district. Ngara District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr   Revocatus Ndyekobora said DNA tests were taken on eleven unidentified bodies before they were separately buried at Mukidiri village. Each DNA was given a special identification number in case a relative comes forward. RPC Malimi explained that the ill-fated bus with registration number T670 DKL property of Fly Emirates Company overturned three kilometers from Ngara town at around 10 a.m., after its brakes failed when descending a steep slope at Kumunyange village in Ngara District. At least 13 passengers died on the spot while three others died while receiving medical treatment in hospital. The bus was plying between Ngara to Bukoba. On November 22, last year at least eight passengers were killed in a road accident that happened at Rwamishenye Ward in Bukoba Municipal Council. Mr Malimi explained that the accident involved a Toyota mini bus (hiace) with registration number T 471 DCG which was plying Kemondo- Bukoba town route. There is a steep slope between Kibeta and Rwamishenye Ward. Investigations revealed that the driver lost control due to brake failure. Five passengers died on the scene of accident while three others died while receiving medical treatment at the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital, he said.