SOME 300 producers are expected to take part in the second national Forum for the Rural Producers aimed at discussing their participation in the domestic and foreign market. The two-day forum slated to start this Thursday in Dodoma will cover topics in four areas such as livestock, fisheries, agriculture and beekeeping and resources use. Agricultural Non State Actors Forum (ANSAF), Head of Operation, Mr Honesti Mseri said the forum will also feature research presentations for each sub-topic discussion and exhibitions of agriculture products. “The forum will provide opportunities for small producers to discuss agriculture agenda and come up with strategies on improving their domestic market and foreign in Agricultural sector,” he said. The forum organiser said the Minister of Agriculture, Prof Adolf Mkenda, is expected to grace the event which is sponsored by the Inter Action project under IFAD Tanzania. The forum will enable rural producers to share and learn experiences with researchers and policy makers on how to reduce resource conflicts and improve productivity to achieve industrialization. The forum will provide a chance for participants to discuss various agricultural agendas and come up with recommendations to improve various policies, laws and regulations especially in the sectors of agriculture, livestock and fisheries. Mr Mseri said the forum would bring together stakeholders from the public and private sectors’, including researchers and experts from higher learning institutions and the official forum language is Swahili. He said the forum is a catalyst for creating opportunities for rural producers who will late contribute to economic growth through investing in agriculture, livestock and fisheries. Furthermore, Ansaf and other stakeholders recognised and commended the efforts made by the government in the agriculture sector and capacity building in collaboration with the private sector. The conference set to address the issue of advocacy for the rights of women and youth and vulnerable people in rural areas in access to productive resources by participating in income-generating activities including in the agriculture sector. Tanzania Milk Processors Association, Executive Secretary, Ms Rose Lyimo has urged rural producers to participate in large numbers and to see different dairy products and other opportunities. The Forum for Rural Producers in Tanzania ‘Jukwaa la Wazalishaji Vijijini Tanzania’ (JUWAVITA) is an independent loose coalition of small scale rural producers who are represented by CSOs that are accountable to their stakeholders.