THE national men's beach volleyball team has embarked on an intensive training, gearing up for the Beach Volleyball Africa Cup Championship. The competition that also saves this year's Tokyo, Japan Olympic Games second round phase and final qualifying, is scheduled for June 21-28 in Agadir, Morocco. Chairman of the Tanzania Volleyball Association (TAVA) Patrick Mlowezi told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations were on top gear for the Olympics qualifying showdown. "We are pleased to inform the public that our national beach volleyball team has officially entered the camp on Monday in Sinza, Dar es Salaam. “The practice will officially start today (yesterday) at Azura beach Dar es Salaam,” he said. He added that his association will prepare a strong team ready for the Morocco meet, to seek for the Tokyo Olympic slots. According to Mlowezi, the national squad consists of David Neeke, who plays professional volleyball at Equity Bank of Kenya and Ford Edward, who form the first team, while the second team is made up of Ezekiel Rabson and Joseph Mafuru. He said that the four-man team and officials are expected to leave the country on June 19th this year to Morroco in time for the tournament. "It should be noted that this team did well in the preliminary stage, the Zone Five Competition, which took place at Lido Beach in Entebbe, Uganda in December 2019. The team clinched Group 7 Africa Zone V Beach Volleyball champion, beating teams from Kenya, Sudan and hosts Uganda, to qualify for Morocco meet. He noted that the competition was originally scheduled to take place last year but it was postponed due to the global coronavirus crisis. Mlowezi said both teams will continue to be sharpened and coached by Alfred Selengia, who is the trainer of trainers at the Confederation of African Volleyball Federation (CAVB). He is also the TAVA Secretary General. TAVA has also called on stakeholders, institutions, various companies and sports well-wishers, to come forward  and help the team with materials or financially for the smooth preparations, so that they can fly high the country’s flag in Morocco. Tanzania will battle it out seeking for the maiden beach volleyball Olympics participation. He said the players are doing well and are highly motivated, however, he said they need more support to achieve the goals.