OKAY, folks, I just want us to be honest, and when I say honest, I mean reaaaly honest, do you catch my drift? It has always surprised me that it is only in Bongo where it seems that everyone, including your house girl or house boy, are well informed in so many things, despite the fact that most of the time the topics they discuss, and the ideas and wisdom that is dished out free of charge, is always twisted. If you live in this city, then you will definitely agree with me that I am telling the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, because chances are, you are one of the wise men and women yourself, and let a train full of passengers heading to Tabora ran over me if I am telling a lie! (Was that a train I just heard hooting outside?). Take the example of our beloved ramshackle we fondly call a ‘daladala’. If the good Lord has not smiled on your poor self and blessed you with your own set of wheels, then it is obvious that you always cram your frame in one on of these moving contraptions at one time or another during the day. And you will agree with me that because the Bongo folks are known everywhere (I think it is worldwide, don’t you agree?) for their willingness to talk, then it becomes unusual if you enter one daladala and there is total silence from the beginning of your journey to the end. Probably as you seat your tired poor self, the guy seated next to you will offer you a hearty ‘Za saa hizi!?’, and because you don’t want to appear rude, you respond back, and inform the person that you are okay, even if your boss, who always appear as if he is on a mission to make your life miserable, has just been chewing your head off in the office. Before the dirty and smelly conductor, the guys we call ‘Konda’ or ‘Mikoba’ can tell the driver to hit the road, the guy seated next to you, after realizing that you are a potential candidate for a conversation, will start on something that will always require your response, (whether you like it or not, I might add!) “Aise leo mvua balaa! Yaani hali ya hewa kama ulaya vile!” he says. And again, because you don’t want to appear rude (even if you are always rude most of the time) you think of the right words to respond. But before you could say anything, the fellow seated on the other side of the noisy passenger picks up on the conversation, and in a loud voice says “Acha bwana, Dar haina mvua! Nimetoka Nairobi mtu wangu, kule barafu kabisa!” he says, and soon, every wise passenger in the vehicle, which in this case happens to be all the passengers, (apart from you of course) start describing their personal experiences involving cold and wet weather. Just the other day I had to use one of these ramshackles after my poor excuse of a car, which is just a collection of metal, refused to start completely, so I had to abandon it at the office and was lucky enough to get a seat in the bus. I was about to dose off, when a fat woman seated just behind me, and who has a close resemblance to your local mama Ntilie, engaged an old man next to her with her ordeal in Moscow “I am telling you, the only time when it is not snowing in Moscow is never! I had to walk in the streets of Moscow wrapped in two blankets, can you imagine that!” she told the obviously bored old fellow. I told myself that if you actually take your sweet time and try to look into that particular woman’s life, you will be shocked to discover that the farthest she has ever gone in her entire life might be just Mtwara, or Mbeya for that matter. Soon, a fellow who has all the appearances of a seasoned pickpocket interrupted her and informed the whole daladala that nothing beats his experience in Alaska, the land of the Eskimos, (but our guy calls them the ‘Heskmus’) “Wacha mwanangu! Nilikuwa Halasikas, kule mwanangu baridi kichizi! Lakini jamaa wenyewe, Heskmus, wanatembea pekupeku mtu wangu, wengine na chupi tu!” he says, to the amusement of everyone. Before another passenger, a woman who has bleached herself pink could feed our ears with her own experience when she was in Hongi Kongi, I was thankful that I had to alight, but it left me with a certain idea that the Bongo species are a widely traveled lot, if you are new in town, that is. But because, as you have always known, that Baba Boyi is a very quiet and decent fellow, I always listen to all these cracks with a sense of amusement, because after all, if these guys don’t offer us with this free entertainment, who will? But whatever happens, pray to God that you don’t sit in the front seat of a daladala, and you are sandwiched between a talkative driver and a loud passenger! And he has to tell you, in a very detailed fashion, how he drove through a police barricade, with his 1954 mini bus! That is why I am very sure that the Tanzanians who have died and gone to heaven are keeping God busy with half cooked stories, and I am sure the old man looks at them with a sweet smile and wish He could send them back for the sake of Heavenly peace!