PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday suspended the management of the Kariakoo Market Corporation (KMC) for massive irregularities in the operation of the country’s largest shopping centre. The Head of State also ordered security organs to conduct a probe on the state of affairs at the market, which serves the country and neighbouring nations, for further action. President Samia issued the directives during her impromptu visit at the market, which is located in the city’s Central Business District (CBD). “I have received some concerns and decided to visit the market to personally witness the problems facing traders, taking into account that Kariakoo accumulates a large chunk of all businesses undertaken in the country,” she said. “After going around and speaking to some of you, I got a clear picture of how things are being carried out here, and unfortunately I am not pleased,” she added. The President therefore ordered an inquiry on the entire operations of the Kariakoo Market due to unpleasant conditions discovered inside and outside the market. Among major issues include the coordination and arrangement of goods at the market as well as hygiene management. According to the President, the government has always held clear intentions of supporting petty traders since the late President Dr John Magufuli’s era. As she made her way through the lined up stalls within the market, the traders kept on blaring and raising voices against ‘hefty charges’ while cheering ‘the savior has come “Out of 148,127 students who have been selected to join form five, 63,878 are girls and 84,249 boys,” said Ms Mwalimu. According to the minister, the number of selected students has increased by 14.07 per cent; from 129,854 students in 2020 to 148,127 students this year. She also observed that students who have met the criteria for selection include 288 students with special needs, of whom 123 are girls and 165 are boys. Ms Mwalimu, however, noted that private candidates the Chief Executive Officer of the Dar Rapid Transit (DART) Agency, replacing Eng Ronald Lwakatale, whose appointment was revoked. “I have made changes in the DART leadership for the sake of ensuring proper supervision and implementation of the project, I want them to speed up the construction,” insisted President Samia. DART has been facing a number of long-term shortfalls, which prompted Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa to visit it’s yards recently, where he noted a number of buses plying exclusive DART lanes had dropped from 140 to only 85. Mr Majaliwa noted that while DART was meant to end Dar es Salaam’s transport woes, the vision was being delayed because of indifference on the part of the management. President Samia reassured Wanachi at Mbagala that her administration will ensure effective implementation of all projects and plans stipulated in the government and the manifesto of the ruling party, CCM. Going forwards, she said the government will take appropriate actions against all contractors who will be delaying the projects. Recently, the Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) fired three executives of SINOHYDRO for failing to carry out their duties. The company is building the infrastructure of the ongoing Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system from Gerezani to Mbagala. In March this year, TANROADS Chief Executive Officer, Mr Patrick Mfugale, said the construction had reached 10 per cent which is far behind compared to the 50 per cent target set. Eng Mfugale made the remarks as he was briefing the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure during a visit to the project recently. “We set two high-level meetings, involving TANROADS and SINOHYDRO, which have been held with the aim of push them to fulfill their responsibilities as required by the agreement,” he said . According to Eng Mfugale, he had told SINOHYDRO Company that due to work delays and substandard performance, the firm would not get another project in the country. “I told them we will not give them another project in the country until it completes this project with acceptable quality and time,” he said. The second phase of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) infrastructure project was a continuation of the government’s strategy to reduce traffic congestion in Dar es Salaam.