TWO Nigerian suspected drug dealers appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday charged with two counts of trafficking in over 6.3 Kilograms Heroin and Cocaine, which are narcotic drugs. They are Prince Igwilo and Oje Amech Boniface. They were charged with Tanzanian Anifa Ching’wele, a resident of Tegeta in Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam region. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Joseph Luambano, the trio were not allowed to enter a plea to the charges against them, when they were brought before Senior Resident Magistrate in Charge Godfrey Isaya because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate told the accused that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail because their case will be heard by the High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division upon completion of investigations. Since the offence under which the accused persons were facing is not bailable, the magistrates ordered them to remain in custody, pending the completion of the investigations and subsequent committal proceedings of the cases to the trial court. The magistrate, thereafter, adjourned the trial to June 22, 2021, for mention, as investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution, led by State Attorney Yusuph Aboud, are incomplete. Reading the charges, the prosecution alleged that on May 22, 2021 at Tegeta Machinjioni area in Kinondoni District, jointly and together, Igwilo and Anita were found trafficking 6.10 Kilograms of Heroin. In another case, Boniface was charged alone with one count of trafficking Cocaine. The court heard that on May 24, 2021 at Mbezi Beach A area in Kinondoni District, the Nigerian was found trafficking 316.4 grams of Cocaine. This is yet another case involving a Nigerian national in the trafficking of narcotic drugs. A year ago, Nigerian suspected drugs kingpin David Chukwu, was brought before the same court charged with two counts, including trafficking in the largest quantity of Heroin, which are narcotic drugs, weighing 268.50kg. Chukwu, who is a businessman residing at Masaki area, was charged alongside two Tanzanians, Isso Lupembe (49), a businessman living at Mbezi Luis area and Allistair Mbele (38), a Librarian with a certain private University staying at Mbezi Kibanda cha Mkaa. The trio was also charged with money laundering. The prosecution had alleged that on April 15, 2020 at Mbezi Kibanda cha Mkaa area within Ubungo District in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the accused persons were found trafficking in narcotic drugs, commonly known as Heroin, weighing 268.50kg. On money laundering count, the court heard further that on diverse dates between January 1, 2016 and April 15, 2020 at various places within the city, all accused persons engaged directly in transactions involving money amounting to 61,500 US dollars and 17,835,000/-. It is alleged by the prosecution that the accused person committed the offence while they knew that the said sum of money was proceeds of a predicate offence of trafficking in narcotic drugs. In 2019, four other foreigners, including a Nigerian businessman who masqueraded as a pastor, were brought before the same court charged with trafficking in another large quantity of Heroin Hydrochloride, which are narcotic drugs, weighing over 16kg. They were Henry Ogwuanyi (44), the “Pastor” with Soldiers of the Cross Ministry and Onyebuchi Ogbu (34), who are both Nigerian businessmen and Linda Mazure (21), a student and Martins Plavins (20), a contractor, who are all Latvian nationals.