On the occasion of the National day of Italy, I wish to congratulate my fellow Nationals for their continuous and appreciated activities in Tanzania that contribute to our great image in this Country. I also wish to thank all the friends that are working for building stronger ties between Italy and Tanzania. Please count always on the support of the Embassy of Italy whose goal is to bring mutual prosperity to two of the most beautiful Countries in the world. It is indeed a great honour for me to talk in this article about the 2nd of June. This is a date that is full of meanings for Italy! Seventy-five years ago, Italian People decided that Italy would become a Republic. During this long length of time, Italy changed from a mainly agricultural Country to an industrialized one. Thanks to the hard work of my fellow Nationals, Italy met an unprecedented period of progress that changed the society and the welfare of my Country whose development was so robust that made it possible for Italy to join G7 and, in recent years, G20. The prosperity of Italy would not have been possible without being a member of the European Union. Wise leaders of European Countries, immediately at the end of World War II in a still desolated continent, decided to start an integration process that made the European Union our common home. Thanks to the EU, Italy was able to face in a better way the new challenges of the internationalization of world economy. European family, under the EU umbrella, was able to reach goals that were impossible to think they could be achieved less than seventy years ago. Italy is also proud of its NATO and United Nations membership because, thanks to these very important International Organizations, peace was assured to us. My Country, also in the important NATO and UN framework, is strongly involved in helping and giving hope to other countries and populations all around the world. Italy is well known in Tanzania and worldwide for history, art, lifestyle, culture and beauty. We are strongly committed to preserve those amazing features that make my Country unique in the world. We believe that our heritage belongs to all mankind. Who is not feeling Italian when is crossing Rialto bridge in Venice? While we are in Uffizi Gallery, we all want to be from Florence. Ancient Romans, together with beautiful monuments that, after centuries, are still in their place in Rome, built an important piece of our civilization. I come from Piemonte Region that, few years ago, became UNESCO World Heritage site, and I hope to drink with you a glass of our wonderful Italian wine! Tanzania is indeed in our hearts. More than sixty thousand Italian tourists visit Tanzania every year. Such a huge number means that there are a lot of similarities between us. We are interested in further developing, cultural and commercial cooperation with Tanzania, whose economy is growing very fast. We are looking forward to building partnerships on a win-win basis with our Tanzanian friends. We, at the Embassy of Italy, strongly believe in the importance of people to people cooperation. Dialogue and common projects among civil societies is a key factor in the positive development and evolution of relations between states. For this reason, we welcome the very important work undertaken, since a long time ago, by Italian NGOs and Missionaries in this Country. We praise their activities that are very successful and very meaningful both for Italy and Tanzania. Tanzania is quickly becoming the gateway of Eastern Africa and will grant the access to a market of 500 million consumers. The highly strategical geographical position of Tanzania is already contributing to the development of international trade, commerce and traffics in Africa, but also in the Middle East, Asia and Europe. We are indeed aware of these great opportunities. Italy is strongly committed to give its contribution to such a success story. Italians are willing to invest in this beautiful Country because they are confident that, thanks to all the above mentioned positive aspects, their investments will be very fruitful. For all these reasons, we attach great importance to political cooperation with Tanzania both at a bilateral and a multilateral level. We wish for a continuous improvement of our political ties in order to find positive solutions to the common challenges of the contemporary world. Together with all the Staff of the Embassy of Italy in the United Republic of Tanzania, I wish again a Happy National Day to all Italians, Tanzanian Institutions and Citizens and to all our Friends committed to further improving our bilateral ties. Viva l’ Italia!