THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) General Election is getting more intense as the Electoral Committee sat yesterday to sort names of successful candidates, who returned nomination forms vying for various posts. Several candidates returned on time their duly filled nomination forms as stipulated in the election schedule, where the deadline was set for last Saturday at 0400pm. According to the Federation’s Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo, names of candidates whose forms had been submitted, in which, six out of ten contenders in the presidential post returned forms. Among the contenders include the famous sports analyst and former Young Africans midfielder, Ally Mayay and the incumbent president Wallace Karia. Other candidates who have returned forms to vie for federation’s top post include Ally Saleh, Evans Mgeusa, Oscar Oscar and Hawa Mniga. In reference to that shortlist, the Kinondoni constituency Member of Parliament, Abbas Tarimba was not mentioned. In the Executive Committee category, the candidates who submitted back their forms are Lameck Nyambaya, Liston Katabazi, Saady Mohammed Khimji, Athuman Kingome Kambi, Hosseah Lugano, Elisony Mweladzi and Jimmy Msindo (for regional zone 1 - Dar es Salaam, Lindi, Morogoro, Mtwara and Coast). Other candidates include Khalid Abdallah Mohammed, Zakayo Mjema and Thabithy Kandoro (for regional zone 2 - Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Manyara and Tanga); Abousufian Silla, James Mhagama, Joseph Ngunangwa, Denis Manumbu, Mohamed Mshango and Ulisaja Elias returned forms for regional zone 3 (Iringa, Mbeya, Njombe, Ruvuma and Songwe). For regional zone 4, candidates who returned the form are; Hamis Juma Kitila, Mohamed Aden, Osuri Kosuri and Mrisho Ramadhani Kibwigiri (the zone comprises Dodoma, Shinyanga, Simiyu and Singida). In Regional zone 5 (Geita, Kagera, Mara and Mwanza) candidates are Salum Umande Chama, Vedastus Lufano and Salum Alli Kulunge. In regional zone 6 (Katavi, Kigoma, Rukwa and Tabora) candidates are Blassy Kiondo, Issa Mrisho Bukuku and Kenneth Pesambili. Meanwhile, the former Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Director of Administration and Membership Mtemi Ramadhani has called on candidates running for federation posts to avoid Simba and Young Africans fanaticism, for the health of football in the country. Mtemi said this yesterday when he spoke to the ‘Daily News’ and explained that many leaders do not focus on the development of football but they put more energy to discuss issues concerning Simba and Yanga. “I have been closely following up the federation elections and I see most of the candidates putting their interest on agendas concerning Simba and Yanga, rather than football development.