BARRICK Gold Company through its North Mara Gold Mine has been hailed for supporting the preparation of the Mara Region Investment Guide meant to attract investors to grab investment opportunities. Mara Region Investment Guide provides investment information to prospective local and foreign investors to attract them to invest in the region to stimulate business development and growth. In recognition of the contribution, the Prime Minister, Mr Kassim Majaliwa who graced the launching of the Mara Region Investment Guide presented the gold mine with an award and certificate. The preparation and launch of the guide are in response to the call made by Mr Majaliwa that each region should prepare an investment guide to attract investors. The guides have been an effective tool to stimulate development in the regions as they identify many investment opportunities for both foreign and domestic companies as well as individuals to invest. Also, the guides show various investment opportunities in the region ranging from agriculture (crop production, livestock keeping and fisheries), mining, tourism, manufacturing, modern markets, shopping malls, border trade, to mention a few. Mr Majaliwa used the opportunity of the guide launch by inviting investors to take advantage of various investment opportunities in the region and assuring of the government’s support to improve the country’s investment climate and remove barriers to investment. The PM was upbeat that through the investment guide, the country is going to reap huge economic benefits from gold and wildlife resources available in the Mara region. The investment guide, Mr Majaliwa said, would help to create an investment boom in the region, boost economic growth and improve the lives of citizens and increase the national income. Mara region, which is home to the world-famous Serengeti National Park, is a strategic location for serious investors who even wish to tap market opportunities from the neighbouring countries including Kenya, the Premier noted. Besides Africa’s best park, the Serengeti, the PM said the Mara Region is blessed with many investment opportunities, including vast fertile land that is suitable for the cultivation of various crops such as coffee, sugarcane, sisal, and tea. For his part, the Mara Regional Commissioner, Eng. Robert Gabriel, thanked various stakeholders who made the event a success, including Barrick company ,through its North Mara mine. Barrick has been at the forefront of supporting various government efforts to improve the social economy, including addressing various social challenges, especially in the areas surrounding its workplaces.