Some 12 companies from Southeast Asia have shown interest to invest in the country , in areas of ICT, real estate, electronics and agriculture. The firms, under the umbrella of Mega Dynamic Builders, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Tanzania-Asian Business Council (TABC) the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) aimed at strengthening joint efforts in promoting business development and investment between Tanzania and Asia. The Mega Dynamic Builders, Chief Executive Officer, Captain Albert Leo, said they would use the country as an investment hub to export their products to neighbouring countries. “We’re here to contribute, not just to take,” Capt Leo said after inked the MoU. “Formulation of TABC bridges a gap between Asian countries and Tanzania and engages local companies and businesses in job creations.”He added. One of TABC member companies wants to commit 200bn/- in developing six thousand residential houses in Dodoma city. TPSF Executive Director Mr Francis Nanai said the construction of the houses started in Dodoma but would later be implemented to other towns and cities. “The MoU signing makes a new milestone, where investors from the Tiger economies have shown interest of starting invest in the country,” Mr Nanai explained. The Director also said TABC would use the country as a gateway to Eastern and Southern African economies. Since sworn-in, President Samia Suluhu Hassan, has pioneered wooing investors to Dar es Salaam and she has thrown her full support to private sector, a key driver of the country’s economy. TPSF’s Director of Membership Services and Outreach, Zacky Mbenna, said they were expecting more Asian investors in near future. “Asian countries have achieved a lot which is worthy emulating through mutual cooperation,” Mr Mbenna added. TABC was initially started between Tanzania and the Asian countries of Malaysia and Singapore, but more Asian countries are expected to join the bandwagon in the near future according to the TPSF’s executive directors.