THE Sixth Phase government under the leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan of late has been meeting different sections of the population, namely the womenfolk (in Dodoma), elders (in Dar es Salaam) and now the youth (in Mwanza, yesterday) with the sole aim of bringing them fully onboard in development of the country. This is a school of thought that should not be politicized, for instance because the youth plays a great role in nation-building, besides representing the future of the country. Whichever way the youth are looked at, there are many ways they can contribute to national development. They can do so by working hard in any field they are involved in (because they are energetic), be it the teaching, mechanic, or farming field all in the name of developing Tanzania that is our home and country. If one would revisit the eighth Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon idea about the youth, these are people working for one’s nation with total devotion and commitment. It is an obligation for every citizen thus the need to have orientation events for our youth to teach them what national service is all about. However, to ensure the active participation of young people in national development, they need to be supported and encouraged by the government, the private sector, the civil society and their parents. One does not need to belabour the point that there are many young people, who if given the required support can contribute meaningfully to national development. But bringing such youths onboard the development wagon becomes the responsibility of those in authority. Having said that, it is also essential to note that young people must also believe in themselves; that they can become a big asset both individually and collectively to national development if they work hard. The continued over-dependency phenomenon cannot take our youth anywhere, nor can it help them to meaningfully contribute to national development as expected. It is true that today’s youth are facing many challenges, such as HIV/AIDS, unemployment and drug abuse, but there also exist opportunities to gradually overcome some of these challenges. In a situation where opportunities are limited – like nowadays - youth seeking jobs must avoid the habit of pick-and-choose; instead they should learn to take what is available till they get what they want. This country needs more qualified engineers, plumbers, tailors, economists and journalists, doctors, teachers; you name it to lead us to our developmental aspirations. Equally, self-employment must be re-emphasized as in the bodaboda industry that is also a means of eking out a living. However, to help our youth get to where they want and enable them become effective contributors to nation-building all hands must be on deck in achieving this objective, as the youth need support and motivation. To the youth, crime does not pay as a means of earning a living, try it at your own risk and meet the wrath of the law.