PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has discouraged the use of charcoal and firewood as a source of cooking energy. The Premier directed ministries, public and private institutions across the country to turn to alternative sources in order to conserve the environment. He instructed institutions such as public schools, colleges, hospitals and others that are constructing large buildings to consider installing gas supply systems for cooking in their structures. The Premier made the call yesterday while launching an Environment Week-- bearing the theme: ‘Alternative Energy for Ecosystem Restoration’’. The World Environmental Day (WED) is marked on June 5, every year.He directed each ministry to file a report to his office on the implementation of government directives regarding the installation of the modern gas supply system in all new buildings. “My office must get reports from ministries and other institutions on the implementation of the directives after every six months. The reports must indicate the number of institutions that have been reached, changed or installed modern gas systems,” he noted. The Premier urged the public to always keep a clean environment and ensure preservation of nature and that the emphasis should not be during the Environment Day alone. “This must be our normal practice, we must make sure our environments are clean, there could be life without the environment,” he said. WED is the United Nations’ principal vehicle for encouraging awareness and action for the protection of the environment. It was held for the first time in 1974, since then, it has been a platform for raising awareness on environmental based issue such as marine pollution, human overpopulation, global warming, sustainable consumption and wildlife crime. It is a global platform for public outreach, with participation from over 143 countries annually. Each year, the program has provided a theme and forum for businesses, non-government organizations, communities, governments and celebrities to advocate environmental causes. Mr Majaliwa called on Dodoma City leaders to set up a strategy that will promote tree planting in all surveyed areas in the city. He added that residents who buy plots in the region must be educated on the plan so that everyone could participate in tree planting exercises in their area. Earlier, the Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office, (Union and Environment), Selemani Jafo said the commemoration of the WED will go along with seminars and trainings on various matters regarding environmental preservation. According to Mr Jafo, the seminar will bring participants from six countries such as Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan in what is termed as EAC Regional Environmental Week (EACREW).