PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday called on Tanzanians to use religious institutions in building national unity for smooth implementation of development projects. She asked the public to invest in peace and unity, which are basic pillars in supporting development programmes with greater interest of the nation. The Head of State said Tanzanians from all walks of life need to play a supportive role for the country to effectively implement the development agenda. President Samia made the statement when she was speaking to leaders of the Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC) at Kurasini area in Dar es Salaam. Her meeting with leaders of TEC is part of implementation of the promise she made in Dodoma recently when speaking at an event organised by the religious leaders to make special prayers for the late Dr John Magufuli and honour his leadership. During the symposium, she promised to hold meetings with each religious institution to discuss issues of national interest as well as challenges that they face in their operations. Yesterday, President Samia said religious institutions and leaders should be active in advocating for peace, unity and tranquility since they are crucial for the country’s progress in all aspects. “I assure you that the government I’m heading will continue to protect the freedom to worship and believe in whatever religion they want, moreover, I’m also asking Tanzanians to maintain the national peace and unity,” she said. The president equally commended the peace committees at the national, regional and district levels, saying they are playing a big role in ensuring peace and security in the country. “These committees are made of religious leaders, I’m proud that they are doing a crucial job of unifying Tanzanians of all religious backgrounds,” noted the Head of State. Adding; “Since all of us have the same aim of pushing forward national development, then it is important for us to maintain the spirit and protect the dignity of one another”. Earlier, the TEC President, Bishop Gervas Nyaisonga asked President Samia’s administration to consider waiving a ban on catholic universities that were banned from admitting students for degree programmes. He also asked the government to provide tax exemption and other relief on health services being issued by hospitals being run jointly by the church and the government. Responding, President Samia promised that the government will work on the matter and come out with a fair decision that favours both sides. The Head of State also commended the church for its continued efforts in supporting the government on issuance of social services in education and health services. On top of that, she said the church also plays a role in teaching and preaching proper morals to believers and Tanzanians at large. Regarding the catholic universities that were banned from enrolling students, President Samia asked TEC to consult TCU on areas of improvement for the colleges to be reinstalled with their former status and allowed to admit new students. She however maintained that the government has a strategy of enhancing technical and vocational training colleges as the country eyes to have enough manpower for industrial needs. In 2017, TCU banned some 19 higher education learning institutions from enrolling new students after they failed to comply with regulations, some of the affected institutions were under the Roman Catholic Church. Apart from imposing a ban on 19 institutions of higher learning, TCU also imposed a ban on 22 higher learning institutions from admitting new students in 75 courses. President Samia maintained that the move was done for the sake of improving the quality of education as the government wants universities to produce well trained professionals. The well trained professionals, she said, would be an asset towards the realisation of the country’s dream of building an industrial economy.