I WAS on a 10-hour trip, and there I was, dozing peacefully, being a bother to no one, when someone tapped me on my shoulder…ilinikera, lakini ilibidi niamke. The first thing that hit me, no, not the appearance of the person, but the smell! Kusema ukweli yule jamaa alikua ananuka, Mungu anisamehe, but that is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. “Samahani baba, hii siti ina mtu?” he asked me, and it took me sometime to respond, because to be honest I was still trying to gasp for fresh air, and I knew it would have appeared rude if I became obvious that the fellow was stinking, nilipata wakati mgumu sana, nisiwe muongo. Of course I told him that the seat was taken, and that the owner is supposed to board at the next stop, and he went at the back of the bus, but as he passed, it was obvious that most passengers were irritated by the smell, yaani jamaa alikua ananuka hatari. Okay, I know some of you have started asking yourself where Papa Shango is heading with the smelly topic, but muwe watulivu, because today I am going to be ruthless, kama wewe ni mchafu ni mchafu tu! I know most of you, actually almost all of you, have come across people who smell, watu ambao wananuka kweli kweli, and it is not because they have a weird disease, hapana, ni kwa sababu ni wachafu! When I was growing up, I have to be honest, my dad worked extra hard to make sure I became friends with water, yaani for yours truly kuoga ilikua kosa la jinai, I really hated water, mimi na maji hatukupatana kihivyo. Somehow I thank him, for the whipping, for the corporal punishments he took me through for skipping a bath, and for the nights I slept hungry because I forgot to take a bath…msiniangalie hivyo, ni kweli nilikua nasahau! I thank him because it helped to shape me into the man I am today, and I am happy to tell you that from there onwards, hadi leo hii, Papa Shango na maji ni sufuria na mfuniko, I love water. When I talk about smelly people, I know there is someone somewhere anasema… “lakini Papa Shango, wengine ni ugonjwa,”…. Sawa, nawaelewa, lakini twende mbele turudi nyuma, some of them, actually most of them, ni wachafu. You find a grown up, mtu mzima kabisa, you skip taking a bath, na joto hili la Daslama, and you expect people to fail noticing, bila hata aibu. For you to appreciate my point, I hope one day you enter a crowded commuter bus, and you are sandwiched between two dirty people, huyu mmoja hajaoga siku kadhaa na huyu mwengine hajaoga halafu chupi nayo inanuka, I think you will take the effort to look for me and pat me on the back, kweli kabisa. What really surprises me is the fact that someone can reach home after a busy day, unafika nyumbani huogi, you jump into bed, asubuhi unaamka, huogi, chupi yenyewe chafu, halafu you expect to go unnoticed…nawahurumia sana wake zao! Acha niwaambie ukweli, people notice, but because they are polite and civilised, they decide to go through the fumes you emit silently, wanateseka lakini hawakwambii… but the fact remains that you stink! Unless there is a special reason, I don’t see how someone can wake up and fail to take a shower, and I am talking about people who appear respectable, wala sizungumzii omba omba ama wanaoishi kwenye mazingira magumu, I am talking about people who have full access to water. Unakuta mtu ameamka, na kaharufu ka kwapa, you just wash your face, change clothes, and off you go, hukuoga, and to make matters worse, with that smell you are emitting, bado unajipuliza pafyumu! Kuna watu asipooga my friend, they leave a smell that can power a nuclear reactor, nawaambia kweli, and they seem to be very comfortable, yaani mtu hana wasiwasi kabisa! And there are people who are stupid enough to try to come up with stupid sayings to support this dirty habit…. Eti ‘mwanaume sharti anuke kama beberu’, stupidity of the highest level. It has to reach a point where we call a spade a spade and not a big spoon, kama unanuka unanuka tu, and the only solution sio kuja na vimisemo vya kijinga, the only solution is to take care of your personal hygiene, mwili ni wako, utunze. Wanaume washajisemea wanataka kunuka kama beberu, but it becomes worrisome when you come across a beautiful woman, mwanamke mzuri kabisa, but she smells to high heavens, ni mambo ya aibu sana. Because of our difference in the way we were made, a woman’s body is very sensitive, yaani kwa maumbile yako mwanamke ukiwa mchafu it is very easy for people to notice, very easy indeed, and I assure you, kama mwanaume ananuka kama beberu, sijui nikwambie nini about the smell that comes from your unwashed body….ni aibu! That is why sometimes I ask myself, kama huyu mtu yuko hai ananuka hivi, what will happen akifa? There is nothing as good as loving yourself, nawaambia kweli, because if you don’t take care of your own hygiene, who do you expect to do it for you? That is why someone said ‘cleanliness is next to Godliness’ hawakuwa wapumbavu, they knew what they were talking about. Uchafu ni kama moshi, haufichiki, people are likely to discover if you are dirty, that is why women can sit and say.. “Yule dada ni mchafu…” because they have noticed your allergy with proper hygiene. Unakuta mwanamke mzuri kweli kweli but when she comes close to you unasikia harufu ya chupi, inakera, mkinichukia mnichukie tu, lakini nitawaambia ukweli, take care of your body, ama mnasubiri serikali iwasaidie?