THE Chief Justice, Prof Ibrahim Juma, has called on newly-sworn in judges to be God-fearing and fulfill their responsibilities as per the Constitution and other laws. Prof Juma further counseled the new judges to adhere to their ethics of their profession and oaths they took. The Chief Justice made the appeal on Tuesday when opening an induction training course for the judges, seven of the Court of Appeal, 21 of the High Court of Tanzania and three from the Zanzibar High Court, held at the Institute of Judicial Administration Lushoto in Tanga Region. He reminded the judges that in the 21st Century, the law as well as various reforms had increased, thus, when attending a particular case they have to be satisfied if there were any amendments to the law concerning the matter presented to them. The Chief Justice pointed out that the laws are closely relating to day-to-day economic, commercial, social, political and political affairs; hence they touch lives of many normal citizens. "Therefore, judges, as the final interpreters of these laws, you must be God-fearing,” he said, adding that the judges should realize that although the Constitution and the Laws have given them the ultimate and final authority in the matter of justice, they must realize that there is the God to fear and there is humanity to respect. "The Constitution is the voice of the people. The constitution clarifies what authority the people have lent to the pillars of the State," said Prof. Juma. According to the Chief Justice, the people have retained all powers that judges are not required to interfere with through laws enacted by Parliament and through judicial decisions and the implementation of government activities. "The Constitution stipulates that we(judges) and all public leaders have been lent a few powers that we should exercise for the benefit of the people," he said. Prof Juma thanked the Institute, through the Principal, Dr. Paul Kihwelu, for organizing the training to prepare the new judges to serve effectively as judges at the High Court and Court of Appeal. He also reminded the judges that such orientation training would prepare them to be part of the Vision and Strategic Plan of the Judiciary and thus be an integral part of the pillars of the judicial strategic plan and various policies pertaining to the Judiciary of Tanzania. He also noted that the Judiciary of Tanzania recognizes that as the major economic and technological reforms beyond the Fourth Industrial Revolution under which the world undergoes greatly affects the existing justice processes. He said the Judiciary of Tanzania has given priority to orientation and continuous training for judges and magistrates to improve efficiency, skills, professionalism and transparency. "It is my hope that this training will help you build the foundations of a positive attitude. The topics you will find in the areas of improvement will focus on building positive attitudes and eliminating negative attitudes," he said. Prof. Juma also reminded the judges that they are leaders in a poor country with citizens who hope that the job of the leaders is to improve their lives, especially the delivery of justice. He noted that there are many areas in which each person's leadership qualities distinguish him or her when making decisions. The chief justice said that the judge's main task was to hear and find evidence or to listen to arguments to help him or her apply the law and reach a decision. "Remember that a good leader in court is the one who makes sure his or her court recognizes that the citizen before him or her has all basic rights in accordance with the Constitution, including the right to be respected and his dignity to be valued," he said. Regarding ethics, the Chief Justice told the new judges that integrity and good morals purify the soul and enable them to function in accordance with the Constitution and conditions of their oaths.