AT least 2.624tri/- have been released between March and June this year for financing various strategic projects that are being implemented in various parts of the country. President Samia Suluhu Hassan issued the money within 80 days since she assumed office on March 19 this year. The Director of Information Services who is also the government’s Chief Spokesperson, Mr Gerson Msigwa said yesterday that the money has been released to ensure fulfillment of government’s commitments, which include execution of strategic projects. He assured that the government is committed to continue with implementation of all development projects which were initiated by former Head of State, the late John Magufuli. “Out of the released fund of 2.624tril/-, 850bn/- was for the transport portfolio under the Ministry of Works and Transport,” he said. According to him, President Samia has also released 659bn/- for construction of roads, bridges and airport projects, 17bn/- for construction of road network at the government city in Dodoma. Moreover, 4bn/- has been used for the construction of MV Mwanza and allied infrastructures at Lake Victoria, in Mwanza. “Moreover, a total of 716bn/- have been released for implementation of railway projects, including 372bn/- for construction of the Isaka-Mwanza section of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project,” he said . Other projects that have received the money include Higher Education Students Loans Board (HESLB- 213bn/- ), water projects (91bn/-), the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP- 543bn/- as well as the construction of the section of Hoima-Tanga crude oil pipeline where the government has issued 249bn/-. “Expounding further, Mr Msigwa said the government has also signed contracts with various development partners worth 845bn/-, aimed at financing development projects,” he said, adding that there are other contracts in the pipeline worth 2.697tri/- to be signed in the near future. “In total, the government will sign various contracts worth 3.542tri/- with development partners,” he explained