CHINESE President Xi Jinping has commended his Tanzanian counterpart, Samia Suluhu Hassan, for her continued efforts and commitments to implement strategic development projects as well as creating a favorable investment climate in the country. He was positive that President Samia will implement effectively the projects initiated by her predecessor, the late Dr John Magufuli, as well as taking scientific models of facing the Covid-19 pandemic. A State House statement issued by the Director of Presidential Communications, Mr Gerson Msigwa yesterday stated that the Chinese president also assured Ms Samia of continued support on bringing development. President Xi’s message was delivered to President Samia at the Chamwino State House by the outgoing Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Wang Ke, who went to bid farewell to the Head of State following the end of her tenure in the country. Ambassador Wang arrived in Tanzania in October 2017, taking up the post as the 14th Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the United Republic of Tanzania; she is set to leave the country on Sunday. During their talks, President Samia thanked the Chinese diplomat for her tireless efforts in cementing further the diplomatic ties between the two countries. Some of the projects that were implemented under the support of China include the construction of a state of the art library at the University of Dar es Salaam, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation as well as issuance of 35bn/- aid for financing development projects. “President Samia also acknowledged the support from Chinese government on different construction infrastructure projects, improvement on social services delivery, investment and trade relations as well as increasing national and individual income,” read part of the statement Ms Samia also received greetings from President Xi, and used the occasion to send her best wishes to the Republic of China as they are marking 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Communist Party of China (CPC) to be held on July 1, this year. She also mentioned the good relationship that CPC has with the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), as well as the bilateral ties between the two countries that has been maintained for the past 56 years. The Head of State went on to explain a job well done by the CPC of building China as well as enhancing its diplomatic relationship with foreign countries, including Tanzania, assuring of commitment to take further the existing ties. The envoy thanked President Samia for the cooperation she received during her tenure in office, commending her for taking over the office and becoming the sixth president of Tanzania. According to her, China will provide President Samia with full support. In attendance to their talks was also the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Mbarouk Nassor Mbarouk.