HAVING spent 100 days in office after being sworn-in as the sixth Head of State, President Samia Suluhu Hassan has expressed her commitment to ensure all strategic development projects initiated by her predecessor, the late President John Magufuli are fully implemented. In number of occasions, President Samia has made it clear about her commitment to ensure all projects initiated by the late President Magufuli are completed as they are geared towards transforming the country’s economy. When laying a foundation stone on the proposed construction of the Mwanza- Isaka SGR project, President Samia rallied Tanzanians to be patriotic enough and pay tax to enable the government execute its mega projects. She stated categorically that a great deal of the projects was being implemented through internal funding, hence the need of paying tax to the government. During her stay in Mwanza, President Samia, in all her events, affirmed the government’s commitment to completing the ongoing strategic development projects as well as coming up with new ones for the public interests. “I urge all Tanzanians to pay tax lest such projects get stalled midway and the country misses out on its economic targets,” observed the President. Elaborating, the Head of State called for the removal of red tapes delaying the implementation of Mchuchuma and Liganga projects, saying it is high time the projects took off. The President said there is a need to establish the reasons behind the delay of the strategic extractive projects, saying the government would not hesitate to act if the investor is incapable of implementing the projects. President Samia in her tour in Mwanza also held a number of activities including launching Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Mwanza branch, Mwanza Precious Metals Refinery (MPMR) factory as well as mega water project in Misungwi District. She also launched the Mwanza South Port Slipway inspection area, besides inspecting the ongoing construction of the Magufuli Bridge as well as laying a foundation stone on the proposed construction of the Mwanza- Isaka 341km Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). During the swearing in of the appointed Permanent Secretaries and heads of several government institutions in April this year, President Samia directed the Ministry of Works and Transport to speed up the construction of Msalato Airport since it is one of the strategic projects that need to be accomplished. Msalato Airport Project is a continuation of the effort initiated by the late President Magufuli who always supported and wished to see progress in aviation sector in Tanzania. Other supported aviation projects include, the installation of four radars at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), Mwanza and Songwe stations implemented by TCAA. The project cost 67.3bn/- and it was 100 percent financed by the government of Tanzania. The radar system enhances Tanzania airspace surveillance capacity by 100 percent. Other supported projects is the purchasing of aircraft for Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). ATCL now has a total of nine aircraft in its fleet; Four Dash 8-Q400, Two Airbus A220-300, Two Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner and one Q300. Furthermore, other projects included upgrading and rehabilitation of Bukoba and Tabora airports, expansion of international arrival lounge at JNIA TB III, refurbishment and face lifting of JNIA Terminal I and construction of access road at Arusha airport. At least 2.624tri/- have been released between March and June this year for financing various strategic projects that are being implemented in various parts of the country. President Samia who assumed office on March 19, this year issued the money within 80 days since she assumed office on March 19 this year, according Director of Information Services who was then serving as Government’s Chief Spokesperson, Gerson Msigwa. “Out of the released fund of 2.624tril/-, 850bn/- was for the transport portfolio under the Ministry of Works and Transport,” he said. According to him, President Samia has also released 659bn/- for construction of roads, bridges and airport projects, 17bn/- for construction of road network at the government city in Dodoma. Moreover, 4bn/- has been used for the construction of MV Mwanza and allied infrastructures at Lake Victoria, in Mwanza. “Moreover, a total of 716bn/- have been released for implementation of railway projects, including 372bn/- for construction of the Isaka - Mwanza section of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project,” he said. Other projects that have received the money include Higher Education Students Loans Board (HESLB- 213bn/-, water projects (91bn/-), the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP- 543bn/- as well as the construction of the section of Hoima - Tanga crude oil pipeline where the Government has issued 249bn/-. According to Mr Msigwa, the government also signed contracts with various development partners worth 845bn/-, aimed at financing development projects, hinting that other contracts worth 2.697tri/- were lined up signed to be signed. Former President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, when he paid a courtesy call to President Samia Suluhu Hassan, was upbeat about the country’s future and prayed for Tanzanians to embrace national unity, solidarity, including supporting the new Head of State on her efforts to bring development to the country. “President Samia has begun so well, everyone is praising her for the good start. We had a very good president who unfortunately couldn’t finish his term in the office but she (Samia) will implement all the plans,” Mr Mwinyi was quoted as saying. Mwinyi cited President Samia’s one day visit to Uganda to attend the signing ceremony for the construction of the East Africa Crude Oil Pipeline from Hoima Uganda to Chongoleani in Tanga-Tanzania as the clear evidence of her commitment to implement strategic projects initiated by the late Dr John Magufuli. “The late Magufuli did a lot of things that astonished the world. He improved the investment and trade environment through a number of ways, including reviving the national carrier and restoring flight routes,” he further said. Mzee Mwinyi told President Samia: “Magufuli has gone, but left you for us. You were his close and immediate assistant, whatever he intended is what you intend. You know what has been done and what is going to be done. We all pray for you, so that you can smoothly lead the country.” Same comments were also issued by the fourth phase President Jakaya Kikwete, who noted that Tanzanians are confident with the leadership of the President Samia. Mr Kikwete said that he had no doubt with her leadership because he knew her for a long time, adding: “I Knew President Samia while serving as Minister of State, Vice-President Office (Union Affairs) during my administration... she helped the government a lot in strengthening the Union, including resolving its challenges.” Kikwete further said he was confident that President Samia will have an exemplary performance because when she served as cabinet minister she did a great job in addressing challenges which were facing the Union. He said that her leadership talent was noticed when she was elected as Vice- Chairperson of the Constituent Assembly, adding: “Her leadership made most of us recognize that she was capable of holding high posts in our nation.” Academicians and political analysts have commended President Samia saying she is walking her talk of proper implementation and supervision of the country’s development projects.