THE East African Community (EAC) has made significant achievements in water, fishing and environment sectors. The bloc is in the final of the five-year implementation of decisions that are in its priorities. In the 2017/2018 Financial Year, the EAC, under the Lake Victoria Water and Sanitation II (LVWATSAN II) Project, completed the construction of 15 water treatment plants in five partner states, three per country. EAC Secretary General, Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko said in Arusha that the completion would enable beneficiaries’ access to potable water until 2035, something he sees as a great achievement under his leadership that comes to an end next month. “We constructed 15 water treatment plants ...that will enable the beneficiary cities/ towns to access potable water until the year 2035. This project is aimed at improving water quality and availability through strategic and sustainable management of the Lake Victoria Basin,” said Mr Mfumukeko. Eastern Africa is home to some of the greatest water sources in the world. The three most notable water bodies and systems and of relevance to the East Africa region include Lake Tanganyika - the greatest single reservoir of fresh water on the continent and second deepest in the world. Another one is Lake Victoria - Africa’s largest lake and the world’s second-largest freshwater lake and the Nile River Basin - source of the Nile, the longest river in the world. The distribution of water varies significantly within the region that has four major aridity zones; moist subhumid mainly in Uganda, Rwanda and parts of Burundi and dry sub-humid in parts of Uganda and western Tanzania. There are also semiarid, in parts of Tanzania and arid, most of Kenya. The western component of East Africa, including Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda along with the central part of the continent are considered to have a rain surplus, while large parts of Kenya are considered to have some water deficit and that is according to UNEP, 2010. Ambassador Mfumukeko noted that through fisheries, populations living along the shores of Lake Victoria have been supported to adopt new approaches to fisheries management and techniques, as well as to create their own business through the ‘Responsible Fisheries Business Chains on Lake Victoria project’. Further, EAC recently launched the ‘TRUE FISH’ and ‘ECOFISH’ programmes to promote aquaculture in the region. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), fish farming has the potential to be a key driver for poverty eradication and sustainable development in East Africa. It will not only help improve regional nutrition and food security but also provide new sources of rural income and contribute to conserve wild resources of water bodies in the region. In the past two years, the Head of Delegation of the European Union (EU) to Tanzania and the EAC, Mr Roeland van de Geer made the remarks at the launch of a two-day stakeholders’ workshop on regional aquaculture, under the title ‘Stakeholders’ workshop on the EU-EAC TRUE-FISH Programme’ held in Arusha. The TRUE-FISH programme, with a total estimated cost of Euro 10,150,000 and a total amount of European Development Fund contribution of Euro 10,000,000 over five years (2019-2024), aims to contribute in developing competitive, gender equitable and sustainable commercial aquaculture in the Lake Victoria basin