A CLOUD of grief and sorrow covered the Magufuli grounds here in Chato District on Thursday, when people paid their last respects to the late former president John Magufuli, ahead of his burial on Friday. Thousands of residents of Chato and its environs showed up at the venue from early morning to say goodbye to Dr Magufuli, who died on Wednesday last week in Dar es Salaam. The residents started paying their last respects to the departed fellow Chato resident from around 11am, shortly after the speech of Zanzibar Second Vice President Hemed Suleiman Abdulla, who later led the mourners to pay their last respects. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who was also in attendance. Other top leaders in attendance were the Deputy National Assembly Speaker Dr Tulia Ackson, Chief of Defence Forces Gen Venance Mabeyo, Chief Secretary Dr Bashiru Ally and several ministers and permanent secretaries. The grieved residents were visibly overwhelmed by emotions after passing near the casket carrying the body of Dr Magufuli when paid their last respects. Ms Maimuna Mingisi, Special Seats councillor for Katoro ward, was sobbing uncontrollably when paying her last respects to the late leader. Speaking emotionally, he told the ‘Daily News’ that she had known the late Dr Magufuli since 2000’s during his early days of politics. “When he contested for a post of parliamentarian in 2005, I participated in asking for votes for him, that time I was Chairperson of CCM’s women wing for Chato district,” she recalled. She said when Dr Magufuli became an MP for Chato; he was always encouraging his people to work hard. “I remember at one of the public rallies, there was a young man who complained over job scarcity, but Dr Magufuli told him that he would give him a hoe to engage in farming,” she recalled one of the incidents. During the same rally, Dr Magufuli gave him a hoe and the young man started farming. “As we are speaking, this young man is now a successful person in agriculture,” she revealed. “When we worked with him as an MP he didn’t entertain senseless questions, he wanted people to ask good questions that aimed at development of the constituency,” she said. Another mourner, Ernest Malima (70), a resident of Geita, said the death of Dr Magufuli has hurt him, attributing that the former President was a Good-fearing person who valued humanity. “He was not arrogant and cared about others especially those who were in need,” Mzee Malima told the ‘Daily News’. Paskal Sonda, Chato resident, said he knew Dr Magufuli since 1995 when they were both serving the CCM party in the district. “It’s very painful to lose Dr Magufuli whom I cooperated with in carrying out the party’s activities and development of our district,” Mzee Sonda stated. He said Dr Magufuli became successful in politics because of his good character of being unbiased, hard worker and friendly.