FORMER Olympic medalist Suleiman Nyambui had joined other athletes from inside and outside the country to pay tribute to late President John Magufuli, who died on March 17, 2021. The former long distance hero Nyambui told the ‘Daily News’ that has been shocked by the news of Magufuli’s death. Nyambui said: “First of all I am deeply saddened by the loss of our leader. My family and Tanzanians in general are equally in shock. “I predicted for him to become a President during the second term of former President Jakaya Kikwete because of his personality and hard work character,” said Nyambui who has seen off his coaching contract with Brunei. Nyambui stated that he was looking forward to seeing him and show him a sustainable plan to promote and develop athletics and athletes in the country after seeing off Brunei contract, but all is now in vain. The former Athletics Tanzania (AT) Secretary General always believed that Tanzania has abundant talented athletes that only need guidance and sustainable development plans to realise their potential. “I will never forget him for the assertiveness, dullness, patriotism, transparency and vision of developing our nation. “The good things that he has done for five years and four months, clearly show us the way. I was well aware that he was ready to make a difference in sports. We lost a true leader,” added Nyambui. Since the announcement of his death late Magufuli has been continued to be praised by sports fraternity in and outside the country. Nyambui left a good legacy at Asian nation Brunei and decided to return home. He told this paper that he had a contract to work with Brunei National Athletics Federation (BDAF) until 2022. Nyambui was hired by the government of Brunei through the BDAF as middle and long distance races coach and has been there since June 2015. He also advises Brunei Minister for Sports on athletics issues, and delighted with the faith they showed with him to grant the job. Nyambui said most young athletes in Brunei have become inspired to run and they are doing fine. The El Paso University alumni, Nyambui said his job as Brunei team coach had been very rewarding, as of today the country’s performance in athletics has improved. Nyambui, who is a track events specialist, did well in 5000m, 10,000m races during his career peak in the 1970s and 1980s. He won a bronze medal at the 1978 All-Africa Games and a silver medal in 5,000m during the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, Russia.