Simba Sports Club are in a strong position to close in on CAF Champions League’s quarterfinals as they go head to head with Sudanese Al-Merrikh today at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. After Al-Merrikh dropping points at home in the first Group A meeting against Simba, the Mainland champions are favourites for a home victory after holding their opponents to a barren draw in Khartoum. This gives Simba more energy to maintain their unbeaten record considering the fact that they play at home, though without fans in the wake of combating Coronavirus pandemic as restricted by CAF. The Msimbazi giants are currently topping the group on seven points from three outings, having won their first two games 1-0, against AS Vita Club of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Al Ahly of Egypt, before securing a 0-0 draw against Al Merrikh in Sudan. Should they win today, mathematically, Simba will just need more three points to be among two teams to qualify as none of the opponents will be able to reach that points milestone. AS Vita of the Republic of Congo (DRC) are second with four points from the same number of matches, sharing the spoil with off-form Al-Ahly of Egypt. Al-Merrikh have collected only one point and conceded seven goals from three matches. After playing Al- Merrikh today, Simba will have two matches remaining – against AS Vita at home and Al Ahly away. But of all, they need to win today to assure themselves a place in the quarterfinals. The win will also distance Simba from other group-mates and cement their top position. The winning or drawing of two other remaining fixtures will just add value to their prowess. Simba’s head Coach Didier Gomes said it is very important to beat the Sudanese opponents and clear the air for the quarterfinals. This will be the first time for the country’s envoys to host a high profile match in absence of their passionate fans, who have been a driving force in most of their home victories in the champions league. But, briefing reporters yesterday, Gomes reiterated that it is very important for his side to win the match so as to pave a way of sailing into the quarterfinals. “What I have seen during training sessions is very promising and my players are committed, determined and positive about the game,” he said. Commenting about playing the match behind closed doors, Gomes said he was disappointed with the decision from CAF to suspend fans saying their supporters are very important. “I cannot understand the reason why our fans have been ruled out from attending the match. You saw how important they were when we defeated Al Ahly but I am sure that after tomorrow’s game (today), thousands of them will be waiting us outside the stadium,” he said. He also said that Thadeo Lwanga will be available for the match and does not serve for two yellow cards. He will only miss Ivorian Pascal Wawa for second bookable offence. Speaking on Wawa’s absence Gomes said that he is not worried as several other competent defenders in the likes of Erasto Nyoni can fill in that gap. His captain John Bocco also said they are ready for the match and eager to snatch all three points. “Though we will play without supporters, we are psychologically ready to play in such unusual environment,” he said. Meddie Kagare, Simba’s lethal striker has also expressed the need of winning and finishing top of Group A in their Caf Champions League group stage campaign. On his part, Al-Merrikh coach Miodrag Jesic narrated that they are looking forward to the game and have had good preparations. “We have fantastic and hardworking players who are better placed to do a good job for us tomorrow,” said him. Simba’s group A rivals Al- Ahly, who have a record of winning the CAF Champions League title nine times, have won only one of three Group A matches this season and will today play away against AS Vita of the Democratic Republic of Congo, a team which held them 2-2 in Cairo. After firing three unanswered goals past Al Merrikh of Sudan, Club World Cup bronze medalists Ahly have taken just one point from possible six, losing to Simba 0-1 in Dar es Salaam and drawing with AS Vita.