TANZANIA Ports Authority (TPA) has adopted a new locally-sourced online system aimed at improving efficacy in all ports in the country. The new system also targets to speed up operations and improve services for the ports’ customers and service providers. This is after ports in the country started serving mounting cargos, which are as a result of ongoing major renovations and improvement of ports infrastructure. TPA Director General Mr Deusdedit Kakoko said that the new system dubbed ‘Port Operations Application System’ (POAS) was developed to ensure safety, monitoring cargo movement and ensuring timely clearance of cargo. “POAS is the system locally sourced from local ICT experts; it simplifies clearing and forwarding activities at remote locations. It also promotes smooth flow of cargo, monitoring each step and so, ensures safety and every step is closely monitored,” Mr Kakoko said. Mr Kakoko was briefing the Minister for Works and Transport Dr Leonard Chamuriho during a handover of the newly renovated berth number five at the Dar es Salaam Port. The new berth will be used to handle containers and other cargoes. He said that the government has invested nearly 1tri/- for renovating the sea ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mtwara. “The renovations have seen cargo served by our ports increasing. This is why, we adopted POAS system to improve efficacy and catching up with changes, which will see more customers opting for our ports as points of delivery and picking their cargoes,” he said. He added that POAS supports, among other things, online payments for taxes, charges and other fees, replacing tedious paperwork. The system also doesn’t necessitate physical presence for a customer as they clear given consignment. Giving data, Mr Kakoko said renovations have signals TPA increasing the level of the cargo it serviced last year, which he said was increasing amid coronavirus threats. “We served 17.7 million tonnes of cargo in the 2019/2020 financial year, compared to 17.1 million tonnes in the preceding year. This was a difference of around 400 tonnes despite the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak,” he said. Mr Kakoko also informed the minister that projections show that TPA will be able to handle 20 million tonnes of cargo by next year and 25 million tonnes by 2025. Speaking shortly after receiving berth five, Minister Chamuriho commended good work and told TPA to ensure that all projects are completed in the shortest time possible. “TPA must supervise the contractor, to ensure that he completes construction even below set time where possible,” said the minister. He said that ongoing projects, including construction of berth six and seven and deepening sea level where the ship crosses to reach the ports, will eradicate waiting time for ships and will be able to dock anytime they get closer to the Dar es Salaam port. Tanzania ports are now well equipped with an array of machinery and equipment to handle a wide range of cargo. The ports boost teams of highly trained professionals in various fields, who work around the clock to ensure that cargo entering and exiting the country ports are in pristine condition and on time.