TEARS drizzled freely and hundreds collapsed uncontrollably as newly sworn-in President Samia Suluhu Hassan led the visibly heartbroken Dar es Salaam residents on the first day of paying last respects to the departed fifth President of Tanzania, Dr John Magufuli. The despairing residents braced the scorching sun and the long-winding queue at the historic Uhuru Stadium with most of them in black attires carrying different placards with different messages eulogizing the greatest African leader. The day was specifically scheduled for top government leaders, including ministers and heads of security forces, diplomats, religious leaders, leaders of political parties and other dignitaries. But, thousands of ordinary citizens also turned up to join the leaders, signaling their strong feelings to bid farewell to their deeply felt groundbreaker, who spent his time at the core fighting for their interests. The body of the iconic African leader arrived at the Uhuru Stadium at around 10am from St Peter’s cathedral, for the requiem which lasted until around 12pm. Thereafter, senior military officers carried the casket to the tent, which was decorated with national flag colours. After the officers kept the casket on the table in the tent, the military band led the congregation to sing the national anthem. Then the Head of the State, Mama Samia was the first to pay her last respects followed by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. He vividly couldn’t bear the pain of bidding farewell to revered statesman and wept uncontrollably. Zanzibar Second Vice- President, Hemed Suleiman Abdulla and former Zanzibar President Amani Abeid Karume also paid their last respects to the late President, who passed away last Wednesday from heart disease. Heads of Security Forces including Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) Venance Mabeyo, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro as well as ministers also turned up to pay their last respects. The Minister of State, Prime Minister’s Office, Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Youth, Employment and Persons with Disability, Jenista Mhagama, could not control her emotions as she sobbed and weakly walked outside the tent after paying her last respects. CCM Deputy Secretary General Dr Abdallah Juma Saadallah ‘Mabodi’ was sobbing, so was the Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment), Ummy Mwalimu. A score of ministers immediately after paying their last respects emotionally spoke highly of the fallen Head of State, recalling how he sacrificed his life for Tanzanians. Shedding tears, the Union and Environment Deputy Minister Mwita Waitara, eulogized Dr Magufuli: “If we had powers we would have stopped death but we thank God for everything. You can’t tell my history without mentioning Magufuli…he received me from the opposition party and trusted me, appointing me to the cabinet.” Mr Waitara stated that the late President Magufuli did many things to improve the livelihoods of poor Tanzanians. Deputy Minister in the President’s office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr David Silinde, recalled how the late Magufuli improved performance of the ruling CCM party, which attracted him and many other politicians to join the outfit from the opposition party. “We will remember him for having a daring heart; he has left us with a big gap. He has set performance benchmarks that every one of us wants to attain,” the Tunduma MP, Silinde said. On his side, Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Hussein Bashe said the nation suffered a huge blow by losing a reformist, nationalist and Pan Africanist. The late Magufuli believed in Tanzania’s capacity to become self-reliant. “We should now direct our support to the current President Samia Suluhu Hassan so that our country can continue with the same pace towards attaining the desired development goals,” the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Innocent Bashungwa, appealed. Union and Environment Minister, Ms Mwalimu said that in keeping the legacy of Dr Magufuli her portfolio would ensure that it uplift uses of renewable energy to poor Tanzanians. “Dr Magufuli was a leader who taught us a culture of daring and self-reliance as you can see that there are several major projects implemented using domestic funds,” Minister of Constitution and Legal Affairs, Mr Mwigulu Nchemba stated. Paying last respects exercise continues today for ordinary wananchi in the country’s commercial city and neighbouring areas before transporting the body to the capital city, Dodoma for the State funeral slated for tomorrow at Jamhuri Stadium.