THE East African Community (EAC) has continued stepping up efforts in tackling the coronavirus pandemic by strengthening capacity of its staff at ports of entries. The Arusha-based Secretariat has so far carried out a number of trainings which kicked off last year, on preparedness and response measures to Covid-19. “The trainings aim to build the knowledge of staff on safety measures, surveillance, prevention and control strategies and relevant regional guidelines”, explained Christophe Bazivamo, the EAC-Deputy Secretary General in charge of Productive and Social Sectors. Such trainings are convened by the EAC Secretariat and organised and conducted by AMREF Flying Doctors (AFD) in cooperation with World Health Organisation (WHO). While past capacity building and awareness measures primarily focused on port health staff, the trainings involved a wide range of staff with close contact to passengers and their luggage, such as port medical service providers, ship operators, selected crew members, staff at immigration and customs and cargo and baggage handlers among others. It is part of EAC’s and the Deutsche Gesellschaftfür Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) joint drive for pandemic preparedness at the major EAC entry and exit points by training their staff to comply with Covid-19 preparedness, prevention and response measures. With the support from GIZ, the EAC Secretariat engages AMREF Flying Doctors to conduct the emergency intervention trainings for about 330 staff in total at 12 OSBPs in the region, covering all Partner States. Among other things, the training aims to enhance surveillance, prevention of and response to the spread of Covid- 19 in and out of the Partner States, with target groups being border post stakeholders with close contact to travellers and their luggage, as well as to animals and goods. It also sought to build on improving existing frameworks and resources to develop more robust emergency management systems and procedures while at the same time facilitating border posts collaboration. The move is set to greatly contribute towards the pillar of enhanced safety for travellers and the duty of care of EAC and the OSBP management to their workers and border users. Human mobility across borders is said to have exacerbated the spread of Covid- 19 within the EAC region and beyond.