MORE congratulatory messages from Head of States, leaders and government officials to first Tanzanian female President Samia Suluhu Hassan have continued pouring in from across the world, with US Vice-President Kamala Harris yesterday extended her heartfelt congratulatory message. Harris, the first female and black VP in the history of the most powerful nation in the world, joins other world leaders to congratulate the new Tanzania Head of State. Through her verified twitter handle, the US Vice-President Harris said, “I wish best wishes to President Samia Suluhu Hassan following her swearing in as Tanzania's new President, the first woman to hold the office. The United States stands ready to work with you to strengthen relations between our countries.” Mama Samia was sworn-in on Friday and became Tanzania's first female President, following the untimely death of former President John Magufuli, who died of a heart complication known as atrial fibrillation. Mama Samia now becomes Tanzania's sixth President and her ruling CCM is on the verge of endorsing her as the party's national chairperson. On the other hand, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni also took it to social media to express his warm congratulations on Mama Samia. Posting to message, he twitted, “I congratulate Her Excellency Samia Suluhu Hassan on assuming the Presidency in Tanzania. Uganda will observe a 14-day mourning period for President John Magufuli. May his soul rest in peace.” Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi has extended his condolences to Tanzanian people and the government over the death of President John Magufuli (61) who passed on last Wednesday. Tanzanians since Saturday started paying their last respects to President Magufuli. The Egyptian President said Dr Magufuli died after a journey that was full of giving during which he made many contributions in several areas to serve his people, nation, and the African continent. “The Egyptian people and government’s solidarity with the brotherly people of Tanzania over this tragedy based on the strong relations between Egypt and Tanzania,” he said. He also prayed that Allah Almighty may bless the departed president with mercy and forgiveness and grant his family and those who love him patience and solace. El-Sisi met with President Magufuli during a visit to Tanzania in August 2017 to strengthen bilateral relations and promote joint projects between the two countries. Egypt and Tanzania have enjoyed stronger trade and economic cooperation since El-Sisi's visit to Dar es Salam in 2017. During his visit, Sisi met with Magufuli in Dar es Salaam, where they discussed several issues, including investment and the economy. During a press conference held by the two leaders, Sisi said Egypt looked forward to boosting the volume of trade exchange, investment, and economic activity with Tanzania. He added that Egyptian-Tanzanian bilateral ties were “long and historical,” as several ties bound the two countries, including the Nile River. During the conference, Sisi praised Magufuli’s efforts in countering corruption, developing the state’s administrative aspects, and strengthening peace and security. “These efforts coincide with Egypt's intensive efforts to confront corruption as well,” Sisi said. “Egypt and Tanzania are looking to the future with confidence and optimism,” he added. For his part, His Majesty King Mohammed VI of Morocco sent a message of congratulations to President Samia Suluhu Hassan on her inauguration as President of the United Republic of Tanzania. “In this message, the sovereign expresses to the President of Tanzania His warm congratulations, as well as His sincere wishes for every success in her high office to lead the brotherly Tanzanian people towards the progress and prosperity to which they aspire.” “His Majesty the King also takes this opportunity to reaffirm His determination to work together with President Samia Suluhu Hassan to move forward in consolidating fraternal relations, uniting the two countries in the service of the interests of both the people and the African continent.”