M-Net, a content division of the MultiChoice Group, which brought audiences the best in video entertainment for over 30 years has recently announced an opportunity for Tanzanian film makers as it has started soliciting proposals from local producers. M-Net has started to receive proposals from local film producers in the country to fund the production of those films that will be later on be aired by M-Net through its dedicated local channel known as Maisha Magic Bongo available on DStv channel 160. Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam about the funding, MultiChoice Tanzania Marketing Head Ronald Shelukindo said that from now until March 15th, 2021, M-Net will be receiving proposals from local film producers and will eventually review the proposals and finally choose the films that will receive the same funding. The government, through the Film Board, has commended M-Net's decision and urged Tanzanian producers to seize the opportunity and ensure that they submit high quality proposals as this is an important step in promoting and expanding the market for our Tanzanian films. Executive Secretary of the Tanzania Film Board Dr Kiagho Kilonzo, said, “This is a great opportunity and the Board is committed to provide in collaboration with all film federations in the country to ensure that our producers make good use of this opportunity and ensure that their rights and interests and our artists are respected. For a long time now M-net has been using Tanzanian films and as you remember four years ago M-Net launched a channel specifically for Tanzanian content known as Maisha Magic Bongo. It has now come up with a bigger plan specifically aimed at getting more Tanzanian films and now our producers need to take advantage of this great opportunity as you know, M-Net channels broadcast via DStv are seen in various countries around the world”, said Kiagho. MultiChoice Tanzania's Head of Marketing noted; "M-Net has decided to sponsor real Tanzanian films that reflect Tanzanian traditions and customs while carrying a variety of content including daily life, love, relationships and so on as long as they reflect the realities and culture of Tanzania." He said the film should be in Kiswahili or English. For Kiswahili, it should have an English translation (subtitle). The story should be exciting and make the viewer eager and eager to wait for the next phase. Recommended requirements include targeting audiences between the ages of 20 and 45, time- 90 minutes and either in Kiswahili or English. The producer must also submit the film guide, the artists who will be performing, the full names of the organisers' team, the preliminary budget, a sample of any previous work done by the applicant and also the contract document, stating the full company names, directors, stakeholders, registration illustrations of the company, registration documents TRA Revenue Authority and full address. Producers who submit their preferences should submit them by email where the deadline for receipt of proposals is 15 March 2021. Upon receipt and scrutiny, the nominees will be reviewed by a panel and a panel of judges nominated by the channel heads who will evaluate the nominees that meet the criteria and then select the winning nominations. For the winning proposals, producers will receive full funding (ie of all production costs) from M-Net and in such agreements, the technical and editorial standards required by M-Net will form part of the agreement. M-Net will also be responsible for final editing and creative controls based on the film's prospects.