SIX water projects valued at 575m/- which stalled since 1974 in Rorya District are now in operation and serving about 5,775 villagers in the area, it has been learnt. Rorya District Commissioner Mr Simon Odunga disclosed this over the weekend when addressing the District Security Committee that visited him to inspect projects that have been implemented through ‘Pay for Results (PfR) programmes. “We are thankful to the Fifth-Phase Government that has been empowering Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) to make it possible. The projects serve the citizens as per the government directives, meaning that people should not walk over 400 metres in search of clean and safe water,” said Mr Odunga. He, however, ordered water local committees to set up indicative prices for availability of the projects’ running money, adding that water costs should be friendly. In order to control expenditures based on the value of public funds, said Mr Odunga, the regional government has organised the task-force to make sure the projects are not only implemented in the targeted time-frame, but also stable. “Dishonest contractors have no chance here in Mara as we are strictly casting our eyes on all water projects. The residents need full access to clean and safe water services. Whoever goes wrong is in serious trouble,” he warned. RUWASA Manager, Mr Evaristo Mgaya, said the Security Committee was inspecting all the projects which began between 1974 and 1984, which got in operations a few days back. He assured timely accomplishment of all water projects in the region, asking for cooperation from members of the public over protection of water infrastructures, so as to make the services reliable and sustainable. Commenting, Rorya District Council Director Mr Charles Chacha called for the engagement of the qualified experts, for durability of the projects. He at the same time urged members of the public to protect water sources. “We have also issued a 90-day ultimatum for all village leaders to get tree seedlings from the Council. They have to be planted around all water sources, for protection purposes. We issue this announcement here and will also send written notice” said Mr Chacha. He therefore called upon the leaders to immediately visit the Council for the seedlings’ collections.