THE Pan African Postal Union (PAPU) has finally received a title deed for the proposed construction of its new headquarters in the region. The move comes 25 years on, following a protracted land dispute which stalled site works on 22,421 square meters of land in the city. Receiving the legal document from the Communication and Information Technology Minister Faustine Ndugulile on Wednesday, the Secretary General of the specialized institution of the African Union (AU) Younouss Djibrine expressed gratitude over Dar’s decision to finally hand over the title deed. “Tanzania has for the last 41 years been honoring its commitment to our organization regardless of the circumstances, today’s gesture is a clear attest to that noble cause,” exclaimed the elated Secretary General. According to Mr Djibrine, PAPU owed the country immense gratitude, adding that the AU agency will continue counting on Tanzania as a committed host. He further deemed the proposed construction of the continental postal union as a futuristic jewel that would grace Arusha’s skyline in the future. The construction of the headquarters was Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere’s idea after he offered the then Organization of African Unity (OAU) space in 1985 for the construction of the envisioned 17-storey building. The idea, however, came to a halt after unscrupulous individuals encroached part of the land, further dampening its prospects. Such confusion compelled some PAPU members to push for the relocation of the headquarters, compelling for Tanzania’s timely intervention in December 2020, which was also punctuated by the laying of the foundation stone of the 33.6bn/- project. In his remarks, Dr Ndugulile assured the AU’s specialized agency of continued support and cooperation throughout its existence in the country. Equally, the Minister challenged the contractor, Beijing Construction Engineering Group to finish the work on time. The scheduled completion of the state of the art facility is June next year. Once completed, the new headquarters is expected to be the tallest building in Arusha, hosting offices for PAPU and the Tanzanian Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), as well as business premises, conference halls, training centres, supermarkets and banking institutions. It is a result of a Joint Venture Agreement concluded between PAPU and TCRA, where the former holds a 60 per cent stake, while TCRA commands a 40 per cent share. The specialized agency of the AU  was established in January 18, 1980 following the decision of the Plenipotentiary Conference of the then 35 OAU member countries during a meeting held on January 8 to 18 1980, in Arusha. With 45 members to its name, the union is charged with the coordination of all activities aimed at developing postal services on the African continent.