MEMBERS of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Constitution and Legal Affairs have commended the Judiciary of Tanzania for an efficient use of resources. They said the effective use of resources is reflected in the proper construction of court buildings in various parts of the country. The lawmakers extended their appreciation while inspecting some of the court buildings projects in Dodoma, Njombe and Morogoro regions. While in Dodoma Region, the delegates inspected the construction of the Kibaigwa Primary Court buildings. The MPs also visited the construction of the Njombe Resident Magistrate’s Court and the Justice Integrated Centre, Morogoro Zone Court building. “We commend the Judiciary of Tanzania for the construction of beautiful buildings in various parts of the country; these buildings are of the standards of the middle economy country,” said the Vice- Chairman of the Committee, Ms Najma Murtaza Giga. Ms Giga said the quality of the court buildings meet the future demands where the newly constructed primary court building could be used to house District Court when the area is upgraded and becomes a district, citing the Kibaigwa Primary Court building in Kongwa District in Dodoma Region. Another committee member, Singida West legislator Mr Elibariki Kingu said the committee has found value for money in court projects that are of acceptable quality. “The buildings are attractive, we congratulate the Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs and the leadership of the Judiciary of Tanzania for the good work,” he said. He added that the judiciary was a pillar of the state mandated to provision of justice, thus, the proper use of public funds in the institution was a good indicator that even justice will be done. The committee is also expected to visit and inspect the construction of the Integrated Justice Center buildings in Temeke District in Dar es Salaam and Arusha Region and later visit District Courts of Chemba and Bahi in Dodoma Region. The Tanzanian Judiciary is in the process of constructing court buildings in various parts of the country, including six Integrated Justices Centres Court buildings in Arusha, Mwanza, Dodoma, Morogoro and Dar es Salaam. Other buildings include the Resident Magistrate’s Courts, District Courts and Primary Courts in various parts of the country including Lindi, Njombe, Katavi, Sikonge, Bahi, Chemba and several Primary Courts including Kibaigwa in Dodoma, Nyakibimbili in Bukoba, Matili in Songea and Kimbe in Tanga. In addition, the judiciary has completed the construction of two High Court buildings in Kigoma and Mara regions, Resident Magistrate Courts in Simiyu, Geita, Pwani and more than 16 district courts in various parts of the country.