THE Southern African Development Community (SADC) has promised to continue safeguarding citizens in the region for their wellbeing and perpetuate strong leadership in remembering the late John Magufuli. “Dear Magufuli, in front of your body, we, your colleagues in SADC will not stop securing our citizens for their wellbeing… Dear Magufuli, we will remember you, for your strong leadership, thinking about every Tanzanian and every African…. we will give support to President Samia Suluhu Hassan so she can continue uniting Tanzanians,” SADC Chairperson, Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi, stated yesterday. President Nyusi noted, “Magufuli, as a human being with capacity like yours never dies, you will remain living in the hearts of Tanzanians, you are with us.” He said the late Magufuli stood for completion of strategies and well translated the community’s vision 2050 and the Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP) 2020–2030 when he chaired the SADC. He was giving his tributes on behalf of SADC and his country at a national event in Dodoma to bid farewell to Dr Magufuli who died on 17th March this year. “It has gone silent the voice of a man, husband, father and brother. It has gone silent the voice of an administrator who followed the steps of his predecessors in advocating for interests of Tanzanians,” Mr Nyusi noted as he addressed in Swahili in respect to Dr Magufuli’s initiative to push for Kiswahili becoming one of the official languages of the bloc. “Is it true that our African continent has lost one of its popular leaders, is it true that Tanzania has lost a truthful citizen, hardworking Tanzanian. How can we say farewell to a person who led SADC by sacrificing himself and wished the region could become economically independent?” he remarked. He said the region does not believe that it is over 20 years since they heard about the death of Mwalimu Nyerere, and recently when they heard about the death of key technician of mediation of conflicts, third phase President Benjamin Mkapa. President Nyusi said Dr Magufuli was trusted by citizens in the elections in 2015 and 2020 and he proved his ability to unite them. He said his untimely death has left a big gap, saying his love for neighbouring countries and his social life and his way of giving ideas publicly over any matter, are things which will never fade. “Mozambican citizens recognise and appreciate the contribution of Tanzania during its struggle for independence. Our relations of brotherhood date back during the liberation struggles, today, we preserve and strengthen our relations,” he said. He revealed that the late Dr Magufuli sometimes called him at 6:00am, telling him to wake up and start working, signaling that he was a re