DAVID Neeke partnered with Ford Edward to beat Muhsin Mhinga and Baraka Mabeyo to win Nyerere Memorial Beach Volleyball National Championship. The annual competition organised by Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) ended at Mbalamwezi Hotel in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Playing professional volleyball for the Kenyan Equity Bank, Neeke and his close friend Edward stole the show to win the first set by 21-13 and extended their lead to the second set by 21-9 to emerge men's champions. Winning the title just confirms that the duo have a strong team that will always remain hard to beat. Neeke said: " We are happy to have won the title though the competition was very tough." He has however said that he is very impressed with the development of the sport in the country that has steadily been gaining momentum. The tournament also saw Ezekiel Robinson and Rashid Mustapha finish third, behind second placed Mhinga and Mabeyo. In the women's category, Janeth Ajili and Sophia Simon won the title as Zuhura Hassan and Jonia Jovin took second place as third position went to Recho William and her fellow partner, Neema Athumani. Alfred Selengia, who is the secretary general of the TAVA said that they are happy with the best staging of the tournament. "We are happy that we received a good turnout of players who played competitively ," he added. Selengia said that TAVA, through that tournament, will select competent players to form the national teams that will represent the country in various international assignments. "Many players showcased their talents during the competition, the TAVA technical team were also busy doing their job and will come up with strong teams," he stressed. Among international assignments that will feature teams include Zonal Olympic Beach Volleyball qualifier. The concluded tournament, which is being held in the country for the second time, is recognised by the Confederation of African Volleyball ( CAVB) and the global governing volleyball body, FIVB. Selengia said all participants have now been awarded points that help them to enter into World Volleyball Information System (VIS) that gives the green light to participate in major world championships.