On Monday, Tanzania joins other countries across the world to celebrate International Women’s Day, which is marked each year on March 8 since 1977. The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is: ‘Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world.’ In the country, various women’s groups are organising themselves to plan this international event so that it becomes meaningful and it brings the message intended across to its addressees. The day is all about women’s rights. We know what women in many countries across the world go through simply because they are women. In some countries, women experience mostly gender or sexual violence or domestic violence. In some, especially in those countries which have ethnic or civil wars, women are subjected to rape and sexual abuse. In others, women are subjected to outdated cultural practices such as female genital mutilation (FGM) or sexual cleansing. Not only that, in most patriarchal societies girls are denied education in favour of boys because women and girls are generally considered inferior to men and boys respectively or men and boys are considered superior to women and girls respectively. In such societies women are discouraged to vie for leadership positions. It suffices to say that women and girls still face many challenges, which on a day like tomorrow need to be addressed so that we may create a world where men and women are equally treated and every person counts. The government and gender activists and stakeholders push for gender equality after seeing that when women are given equal rights perform well even better than men. It is in light of this, that we reiterate what we always believe to be true that men and women are equal in dignity and must all be given equal opportunities provided they qualify for what they vie for or want to do. In light of this we join forces with the UN to promote inclusive leadership and representation that leads to stronger democracies, better governance and more peaceful societies. As United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Administrator Achim Steiner puts it, this year’s International Women’s Day is a rallying cry for generation equality and that it is time to harness the power of women’s leadership to realise a more equal, more inclusive and more sustainable future. We thus support all women movements that push for gender equality, equal rights and treatment and inclusive leadership or equal participation in decision-making processes for we believe through this we will be able to end all forms of violence against women and girls and we will indeed create an equitable world for all.