THE swearing-in of Samia Suluhu Hassan as President John Magufuli’s successor yesterday has offered fresh hope and a breath of life for Tanzanians. Amid grieve and despair, caused by the unforeseen departure of the immediate former President, Dr Magufuli, who passed on Wednesday in Dar es Salaam, Tanzanians took comfort from his successor’s inspiring speech. President Samia, who becomes the first ever female president in the country’s history, delivered a brief moving inaugural speech shortly, urging Tanzanians to look forward with great optimism. Wearing a red hijab, Ms Samia took oath of the country’s highest office until 2025-- two days after she addressed the nation to announce the death of Dr Magufuli. The new President demonstrated her usual calmness and boldness, assuring the citizens that the country was in safe hands while pledging to maintain the legacy left behind by her predecessor. Her inauguration speech touched many, and gave assurance to Tanzanians that life will be coming back to normalcy following the huge loss of a great leader, Magufuli. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, Mzumbe University (Dar es Salaam Campus) Head Prof Honest Ngowi was of the view that President Samia’s speech has uplifted the nation and consolidated its people in unity. “The speech has been handsomely contextualized and basically unified Tanzanians. It is time to look forward as one with assured peace and tranquility,” said Prof Ngowi. In respect of economics that he specializes in, Prof Ngowi said the President’s speech has a lot and means much to investors as it showed that the presidency institution remains in safe hands. “There is no worry for investors and those who wish to come in the country for that purpose because they will be given opportunities they need and enjoy security at its best,” he said. Chalinze legislator, Mr Ridhiwani Kikwete said the newly sworn-in president has brought in a spirit of togetherness and expressed optimism that she will lead the country in the right path for prosperity. The soft-spoken President Samia was sworn in as the East African country’s first female president after the sudden death of Dr Magufuli last Wednesday. “I, Samia Suluhu Hassan, promise to be honest and obey and protect the constitution of Tanzania,” said Hassan, dressed in a black suit and red headscarf before dignitaries at a ceremony in the commercial capital, Dar es Salaam. It’s not a good day for me to talk to you because I have a wound in my heart. Today I have taken an oath different from the rest that I have taken in my career. Those were taken in happiness. Today I took the highest oath of office in mourning,” she added. “Nothing shall go wrong,” she said, urging all the country’s people to work to unite the nation. She assured Tanzanians that his predecessor Dr Magufuli had prepared her for the task ahead. Tanzania Mineral Dealers’ Association (TAMIDA) says Ms Samia’s speech has brought the business community back on track and promised to offer the new president their support in building the nation. He said that the best way to honour Dr Magufuli is to support President Samia and add value to Tanzanite minerals that are only earthed in Mirerani, Tanzania. It is President Magufuli who initiated value addition by constructing a perimeter wall around the deposits and setting up of mineral hubs. TAMIDA Chairman, Sammy Mollel said the association will never forget Dr Magufuli’s contribution and support to the sector, taking it rapidly to the next level and adding value to the minerals produced in the country, including setting up processing centres before exports of the minerals. Alpha Group Limited businessman, Mr Karim Dalia, said he will remember Dr Magufuli for his unwavering stand in justice to all, getting a close look on tax payments and his love for the common people. Mohammed Enterprises Arusha Regional Manager, Mr Ali Manji hailed President Samia’s speech as a unifying force, saying he was sure she would lead the nation to prosperity. Vice Chancellor of University of Dodoma, Professor Faustine Bee also lauded President Samia for her moving speech, saying it carries a lot of weight. Professor Bee said that while it was with great sadness Tanzanians, East Africans and the whole world received news of JPM’s passing on, great hope and promise lie in the future. “It is very sad that we have lost a great leader in Dr John Magufuli, anyway it is God’s will to take his own. He did a lot. “As a vice-chancellor and on behalf of the institution I send my condolences to the family, government and nation at large. I promise we will join hands with the new President Samia in building our nation. I have no doubt on her capability to send the country to next level after JPM took it to the middle income status,” said Professor Bee.