TANZANIA is well-represented by women who have been given opportunities to work for international organisations and other platforms. Being a member to various regional blocs, Tanzania is exposed to a number of job opportunities that have been offered to qualified candidates from member states. Among the regional blocs Tanzania is a member include the Southern African Development Community (SADC) that brings together 16 member countries located in southern Africa. For the past seven years SADC has been enjoying good service from a Tanzanian woman, Dr Stergomena Tax, who serves the bloc as executive secretary, running daily activities of the integration which is headquartered in Gaborone, Botswana. Dr Tax, who was born on July 6, 1960 in Magu District, Mwanza Region, is the 6th executive secretary and the first woman to serve SADC in that capacity. She was appointed by the SADC Summit of Heads of State and Government at its 33rd meeting in Lilongwe, Malawi, and was sworn in on August 18, 2013. Formerly, she was permanent secretary in the Ministry of East African Cooperation from 2008 to 2013. In 1991, Dr Tax graduated from the University of Dar es Salaam with a bachelor of commerce in finance. She later achieved a master’s degree in philosophy, policy management and development economics and a PhD in philosophy and international development from the University of Tsukuba, Japan. Dr Tax has led and participated in numerous bilateral as well as multilateral processes, programmes and negotiations and has contributed to the development and implementation of continental and global developmental agendas. In peace and security, she has coordinated and led a number of SADC conflict prevention, resolution and mediation processes, as well as democracy consolidation processes. She has expertise and experience in regional integration (socioeconomic, politics, peace and security), trade and industrial development, finance, investment and private sector development. Dr Tax has successfully led the development and implementation of SADC blueprints. Work experience Before her current post that she has been serving since September 2013, Dr Tax has served the government in various posts, including Permanent Secretary in Ministry of East African Cooperation (November 2008 to August 2013) and Permanent Secretary in Ministry of Trade, Industry and Marketing between December 2007 and November 2008. Before, she had between January 2006 and November 2007 served as Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Planning, Economy and Empowerment. She was also the chief executive officer in the President’s Office, Planning and Privatisation, the Better Regulation Unit – The Business Environment Strengthening Programme for Tanzania (BEST) from October 2004 to May 2006. After her studies in Japan in 2002, Dr Tax worked as Coordinator Commissioned Studies, Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF) from May 2002 to October 2004. Between May 1991 and April 2002, Dr Tax worked with the Ministry of Finance in various capacities such as Finance Management Officer 1991-92, Officer-in-charge for World Bank Desk, 1993, Officer-in-charge for Arab Funds – including the Kuwait Fund, Saudi Funds, OPEC Funds, 1994, Officer-in- charge of SADC and United Nations Development Programme (UNPD) Desks, 1995. Academic qualifications Dr Tax has a PhD in International Development from the University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan, where she studied between 1997 and 2002. Before, she studied a Masters of Philosophy in Policy Management and Development Economics, from the same university from April 1995 – March 1997. She also has a Bachelor of Commerce (Finance), University of Dar es Salaam, and a Diploma in Business Administration.