THE Institute of Judicial Administration (IJA) is set to open two colleges in Mwanza and Simiyu regions, in a bid to extend its services in the Lake Zone. The Institute’s Director, Judge Paul Kihwelo said during the fourth meeting of the Workers’ Council that the colleges will cost 800 m/- (400 m/- each) and construction activities are set to take-off in the next fiscal year. “They will be in operation within three years. Each will accommodate at-least 2 0 0 students and will start offering certificate studies. The services will be upgraded according to financial resources. Presence of these new colleges will mostly serve in reducing congestion at the only college Lushoto-based IJA, which hosts not less than 5 0 0 students,” said Judge Kihwelo. He added that the presence of the new colleges will also serve in increasing the number of court servants, which will fill all the gaps in the judicial department. After completion of the two colleges, the current one will be serving only judicial servants, especially in terms of knowledge sharpening and related operations, said the Institute’s boss. According to him, the institute apart from offering academic studies, it has been offering legal-related training to some members of the community on how to solve various conflicts in the society, especially land-related grievances. Under a-30 0 m/- Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) sponsorship, IJA had succeeded through a-two-year pilot project (2 0 2 9 -2 0 2 0 ). He said the project proved fruitful, and they are set to do the same in all regions in the country, mostly encouraging local government leaders to amicably and diplomatically solve some conflicts at primary level, thus reducing the congestion/cases at the courts. Gracing the event, Nyamagana District Commissioner, Dr Phillis Nyimbi said that the existence of the new colleges will quench the thirst of Tanzanians who for a long time have been waiting for judicial academic services in the Lake Zone. She expressed her gratitude to IJA workers’ Council following regular training to judicial servants and various stakeholders in the legal sector, focusing especially on justice promotion in the country.