THE ‘Keep Zanzibar Clean’ campaign, which was launched immediately after President Hussein Mwinyi took oath of office last year has received big support from Romania government after its Aid agency donated trucks for collecting garbage. On December 9, last year, President Mwinyi inspected some areas in Zanzibar and issued a stern warning to executives who had not been doing enough to keep the city clean. The Isles leader made a similar inspection last Saturday, expressing dissatisfaction with the cleaning efforts. Also recently, the Minister of State- President’s Office (Regional Administration, Local Government and Special Department), Mr Masoud Ali Mohamed said the city cleaning exercise should be endless, appealing to executives and residents to team up in ensuring the environments are in good order. At a ceremony to receive four garbage trucks donated by the Romanian government from the country’s aid agency (RoAID) at Kisauni West District Unguja, Mr Mohamed said the government will maintain its relations with private sector and international development partners to manage wastes in the isles. The cost of the four trucks is 160,000 Euros (about 446,673,792.6/-) with modern capacity to provide services in three regions of Unguja and one to be sent to Chake Chake Town Council. “This is a famous tourism destination. We have to keep it clean,” the minister said after receiving the trucks, adding that the support has come amid a cleaning campaign and that the government is in the process of developing strategies to improve hygiene in the city. Mr Mohamed said the city of Zanzibar has international status as it is recognised and included in the list of cities in the world heritage sites, where the old/historical city of Zanzibar is one of the world attractions. Mohamed expressed his sincere gratitude to the Rom Solution Company Zanzibar Premium Audit for the continued support. Earlier, the chief executive of the Premium Audit Institute, Any Ivan Vasilica, said the modern vehicles were provided to support cleaning services, as well as to boost efforts applied by the Zanzibar Revolutionary Government under President Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi. She said apart from efforts applied by the government in cleaning the city, still there is a need for other stakeholders to intervene to make the job easier and effective. “We strongly believe that these vehicles will increase the efficiency of waste collection activities from waste collection centres and take them to Kibele central dumping area,” he said. At Kibele some of the wastes are recycled.