THE plan to erect a statue of the late founding Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere at the Peace and Security Building at the African Union Headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia is on good course. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi disclosed this yesterday on the sidelines of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Ministerial meeting which began virtually yesterday. Prof Kabudi observed that Mwalimu’s statue is among issues which will be deliberated and agreed upon during the ministerial meeting. “For the past two years, SADC had agreed to construct a special statue of the late Founding Father of Tanzania and place it at one of the wings of the AU headquarter identified as Amani Building in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. “The plan is currently in process as we seek a reputable sculptor to undertake the design and construction of the statue,” said Prof Kabudi. Reports show that on October 2016, the African Union Commission (AUC) inaugurated the Julius Nyerere Peace and Security Building at the African Union Headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. According to the reports, the building has enhanced the African Union’s capabilities of discharging its mandate of promoting peace, security and stability in Africa. Prof Kabudi later on told this paper in an exclusive interview that the proposal to construct Mwalimu Nyerere’s statue was primarily recommended by the late former President of Zimbabwe Robert Mugabe. He recounted that some of the reasons which drew former President Mugabe to draw such a conclusion were based on the fact that Mwalimu Nyerere played a major role in liberation of the region and the continent. The Minister further said that Mwalimu was the pioneer of the liberation movement of Southern Africa, something which has pushed him to establish the headquarters of the liberation movement in Tanzania. He pointed out that by then the Executive Secretary of the Liberation Committee of the AU was George Magombe and later the position was taken by the late Retired Brigadier-General Hashim Mbita. “For President Mugabe, he considered Mwalimu Nyerere as a person who deserved to have his statue placed at the Amani building,” he said. According to tender terms of reference “Tender No: SADC/ Nyerere St / 01” published in the SADC website in May 2019, it states that the tender will be advertised in all 16 SADC countries.