SIMBA Sports Club head coach, Didier Gomes has said that they are in good preparations to beat Sudanese Al- Merrikh in the return leg tie of Group Stage of CAF Champions League early next week in Dar es Salaam. Gomes sees a bright future for Simba to advance in the quarterfinals of CAF Club tournament and winning at home is his first priority. Simba recently forced a 1-1 draw with Tanzania Prisons in the Mainland Premier league from which the French man says that he is working on minor mistakes so that they are not re-addressed when they replay the Sudanese side. Simba and Al- Merrikh will replay on Tuesday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam in a Group A match. The two sides met in Khartoum in a fortnight ago as hosts were forced to drop points at home after a scoreless draw. Simba, whose coach was unhappy for their 1-1 draw with Tanzania Prisons after a late equaliser, need to win at home against Al-Merrikh to progress to the quarterfinals. “We take our 1-1 results with Tanzania Prisons as a challenge for our improvement as we will be looking for three crucial home points against Al-Merrikh,” he was quoted as saying. Al- Merrikh are expected to travel to Dar es Salaam for double legged group A match to be played at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba are leading the group with 7 points AS Vita are second in the group with 4 points alongside Al- Ahly as Al- Merrikh are tail enders with a single point. Meanwhile, Simba SC midfielder Luis Miquissone has assured fans he is still contracted to the team and will not leave anytime soon. The Mozambican winger has been the darling of the Msimbazi giants this campaign with his star rising even further after he scored the goal that beat Al Ahly of Egypt 1-0 in their Group A fixture of the Caf Champions League at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. A number of clubs, including Al Ahly, Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa, and Tout Puissant Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of the Congo have reportedly shown interest to sign the player but according to him, he is committed to delivering targets set by the Tanzanian champions before the end of the season. “I have a two-year contract with Simba and it is not right to do anything with other teams about my contract as Simba are the ones in charge of this,” he was quoted as saying by media. “I have seen a lot of agents from Europe and Africa again from big teams showing interest for my services, there are other teams that have even called my agent on [phone], but basically that’s not the right thing to do."