THE government has called on local experts and other stakeholders responsible for negotiating investment contracts to be more careful during the entire process to allow smooth implementation of agreements for mutual benefits. The Minister of State in the President's Office (Investment) Prof Kitila Mkumbo said mid this week in Katavi Region that once the agreement is signed, it should be respected by both parties and the investors should be left to do their work. He said that experts representing the government and other stakeholders should be vigilant during the process to allow investors to generate profit and the state to realise the anticipated benefits. Prof Mkumbo was launching investment guidelines that aimed at providing important information to both local and foreign investors, including investment opportunities in the area. He said that while dealing with investors, experts should be more careful by considering broad national interests because thereafter they will be required to enter the contract with the investors. "Our local experts should be meticulous during the entire process, because once the contract is signed, it is legally binding... it will be useless to raise concern while the contract has already been signed," Prof Mkumbo noted. He said that in order to promote investment in the country, it is important for the government and other stakeholders to provide correct information about investment opportunities, identify investment areas and investment procedures. "When an investor has shown interest to invest in a certain area, it means that he is assured that he is going to make profit that is why they are very careful in negotiation, therefore as the government we should make sure that an investor has sufficient capital, because the investment will generate employment and pay taxes to the central and local government," he said. He however noted that, in addition to other responsibilities, civil servants have responsibility to support and facilitate investors to run their business in a friendly environment. "This is very important for anyone who needs services from the government, because in order for the government to serve its citizens, it should have a good economy," he said. He called upon civil servants and citizens in general to respect both local and foreign investors because their success in business will enable the government to provide basic services to its people. Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Juma Homera said that the guidelines will not only promote his region, but also attract investors and improve investment climate in the region. He said the guidelines have been prepared with the aim of promoting investment opportunities in all district councils of Katavi Region to attract both local and foreign investors. "Already several companies have shown interest of investing in our region, including Kahama Oil Mills Group which is interested in sugar industry, Katavi Mining Co Ltd and Katavi Industrial Park, Safari Tours and Machunde Investment," he said. Commenting on agriculture, he said Katavi Region has more than 900,000 hectors suitable for agriculture, of which 28,228 hectares can be used for irrigation. He said currently the region produces 450,000 tonnes of maize, 268,000 cassava, 3,000 beans, more than 200,000 tonnes of sweet potatoes, 500,000 tonnes of paddy and 6,000 tonnes of sunflower and sisim.