THE introduction of 25 years bond, which is a longer tenure government instrument, may affect negatively the other debt instrument in terms of subscription. The analysts are worrying that the longer-term government security introduced fortnight ago with a coupon rate of 15.95 per cent, may reduce oversubscription of 20 years bond. Tanzania Securities said in its Weekly Market Blast that the introduction may dilute the oversubscription due to investors’ high appetite for risk free treasury bonds. “[This] introduction of longerterm instrument may dilute the oversubscription of the 20 years bond, Tanzania Securities said over the weekend. The stock brokerage firm said debt investors are looking for not only risk free but also higher yield instruments. The 25 years coupon rate going to be higher than that of 20 years. “[The oversubscription trend] has been sequentially happening due to high appetite by investors for the risk free but higher yield instruments,” Tanzania Securities projected. Orbit Securities Head of Research and Analytics Imani Muhingo said last week that the 25 years bond going to be received well similar to 20 years one. “It shall be well received similar to the 20years bond because investors are after yield, and the 25years bond shall have the highest, which gives it the liquidity potential on the secondary market,” Mr Muhingo said. Mr Muhingo said it was high time for the stakeholders to increase debt market awareness which in recently years registered remarkable activities. “The bond came timely from the perspective of capital markets, with record high activities of the secondary bond market, increased awareness, and more listing fees revenue for DSE (Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange),” he said. However, debt market analysts showed their skeptism on the timing of the bond introduction worrying it may crowd out private sector credit growth. “But the timing is questionable from the perspective of the national credit system. With clear indications of private sector crowding out from the credit growth,” Mr Muhingo said. He urged that putting out a Treasury bond with even higher yield, regardless of the maturity, “may be counterproductive to the efforts of lowering lending rates and growing credit to the private sector.” An Economists-cum-investment banker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo predicted that despite the 25 years bond to be oversubscribed poised to reduce credit to private sector as well. “We need to aware that most investors are now looking for long term investment with less risky and looking form long term bond is their avenue,” Dr Shayo said adding “but may crowd out private sector credit growth as well.” Nevertheless, Dr Shayo said, on government side, 25-year implies longevity of liability with aim to raise long term funds to help push to completion long term project that at the end would have huge developmental impact.