IMMIGRATION department in Dodoma on Monday donated 1.1m/- items to Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) to support majorly women and children admitted at the facility. The donated items, which included maternity pads, diapers, pieces of soaps and coconut oil for children to use, were presented as the world marked the International Women’s Day. Executive Director of the BMH, Dr Alphonce Chandika, in his remarks receiving the donation, thanked the Immigration Department, as he extended his gratitude to Commissioner General of Immigration Department, Dr Anna Makakala for the gesture. “We are grateful for the donation and I am really thankful as an individual… I am also here because of a woman, who is my mother,” he said. On her part, the Assistant Commissioner of Immigration Department, Sophia Gunda, said on behalf of their Commissioner General, Dr Makakala the support was in honour of the hospital’s great contribution in the development of the country. “We have decided to come here as part of celebrating with women in this special day, the immigration department, the nation and the world at large value women’s contribution in everyone’s welfare,” she noted. The Hospital’s Director of Nursing Service, Ms Sheilla Mnenegwa, said the donation would help to enhance hygiene, while stressing that hygiene to mothers after delivering was vital. “BMH have received the donation from Immigration Female Officers with delight. We are grateful,” she said. Commenting, the Immigration Department Social Welfare Officer, Ms Grace Rutachokozibwa said as part of the community, they thought it wise to support the hospital especially at the Maternity Ward that coincides with women celebrating the International Women’s Day. However, she appealed to others to also donate towards helping women in hospitals and related institutions, which require their help. Ms Nora Mkonye, one of the women who are admitted at the BMH’s Maternity Ward thanked the officers, and appeal to companies also to assist, saying: “Women population is a great army. I am pleased with the donation from the Immigration Department.”