THE Police Force in Manyara Region is holding a person alleged to have abducted a three-month-old baby and killing him by dumping him into a water container at Selotho Village in Dareda Ward. The suspect, Tluay Shauri, allegedly committed the offence when the mother of the baby had left him home and gone to a river to wash clothes. It is said that there was a quarrel between the accused person and family of the killed baby, so it was a form of revenge. Manyara Regional Police Commander (RPC) Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police Paul Kasabago said the Police Force was still investigating the matter related to the suspect aged 47 years. “The police are holding Tluay Shauri from Selotho Village for being linked with the abduction and death of the baby (John Reginald). He hid himself as he was looking at the mother to see where she was laying the baby. The mother went to the river for washing, but the suspect came after her, took the baby and dumped him in water container at their neighbour’s house, Mr Michael Safari,” said Mr Kasabago. The RPC said that there was a quarrel between the suspect and family of the baby on March 7, this year, which led to suspect to tell the mother that he would commit something that she would never forget in life. Following the incident, there was grief and panic around the area as residents gathered to see and hear more of the news. They said stern measures must be taken against the suspect and all others linked with the incident to deter others. A neighbour, who was identified as Mr Jumanne, said that was the first incident of such kind and was dismayed at the suspect to revenge on parents by killing the baby. The father of the baby was speechless for most of the time while the mother could not stop sobbing. Mr Kasabago said a court process would be initiated through proper legal channels (the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) once investigation was completed, calling on people to stop taking the law into their own hands instead of following right procedures.