THE 28th October 2020’s General Elections has put in place leaders in various positions in accordance with peoples’ choices made in the ballot box. People have spoken and their voices have been heard through elected leaders in the position of councillorships, parliamentarians and the presidential seat. Elected individuals are now delivering their promises and respective parties’ manifestos for the next five years. That was one of the well conducted elections in the history and has won numerous accolades from various groups of observers both local and international as well as senior government officials. It should be remembered that according to Article 74 (6) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977, has given the National Electoral Commission (NEC) various responsibilities and among others is to supervise and coordinate the conduct of elections at various levels. “……the responsibilities of the Electoral Commission shall be: (a) to supervise and co-ordinate the registration of voters in Presidential and Parliamentary elections in the United Republic; (b) to supervise and co-ordinate the conduct of the Presidential and Parliamentary election; (c) to review the boundaries and demarcate the United Republic into various areas for the purposes of Parliamentary elections; (d) to supervise and co-ordinate the registration of voters and the conduct of the election of Councillors; and (e) to perform any other functions in accordance with a law enacted by Parliament,” reads the Constitution Article 74(6). Section 4C of the National Elections Act (Cap 343) and Section 86A of the Local Government Elections Act (Cap 292) give other responsibilities to the Commission which includes issuing voter’s education to entire country, coordinating and supervising those issuing the education in question as well as nominating and announcing special seats members of parliament and councillors. The above responsibilities make it clear that the electoral body’s responsibilities do not come to halt after an election but rather election is a process which involves several activities and it can, therefore, be said that the end of one election marks the beginning of another. In the aftermath of elections, the national electoral body has continued with the execution of its constitutional responsibilities which among others include nominating special seats members of parliament and councillors based on the proposed names by their respective political parties. It should be understood that, special seats members of parliament and councillors are found after vote casting and announcing of Presidential Seat’s results. This is after the tallying of all valid votes casted which helps in establishing the actual number of special seats members of parliament needed. Article 66(1)(b) and 78 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977, Section 86A of the Local Government Elections Act (Cap. 292) and Section 34 (4), 35 (1) (c) of the Local Government (District Authorities) Act (Cap 287), together establishes the posts of special seats members of parliament and councillors, the sections in question also bestow the electoral body the authority to put in place procedures to be used in attaining those seats. According to Article 66(1)(b) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania the number of special seats women members of parliament shall not be less than 30 per cent (30%) of all members of parliament in the National Assembly. Either, following the policy changes by the government in 2010, the number of women special seats members of parliament should not be less than 40 per cent (40%) of all the members in the August House. On the part of councillors, section 35 (1) of the Local Government (District Authorities) Act (Cap 287), Section 19(1)(c) of the Local Government (Urban Authorities) Act (Cap 288) read together with Section 86A of the Local Government Elections Act (Cap 292) put the condition of having not less than one third (1/3) women special seats councillors out of the total number of members in a respective council. Upon presenting the proposed names for special seats, political parties should arrange such names in priorities, that is to say, the most preferred persons should appear first and the electoral commission will, while nominating them, follow the list but on condition that proposed names meet criteria for the post. Same as elected councillors and members of parliament, special seats councillors and members of parliament must be endorsed by their respective political parties. After all the procedures have been followed, the electoral commission in accordance with Article 66 and 67 of the Constitution of United Republic of Tanzania and according to the arrangement and priorities in the provided names by political parties, will announce a certain number of women to be nominated to the position of special seats members of parliament and councillors respectively. In exercising its power, recently, following the demise of the Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Special Seats MP, Hon Martha Umbulla, the Director of Elections of the National Electoral Commission, Dr Wilson Mahera Charles announced Ms Yustina Rahhi as the replacement. The replacement came after the electoral body received a letter from the Speaker of the Parliament over the presence of a vacant post in the August House. According to Article 78(4) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and Section 86A (8) of the National Elections Act (Cap.343) the electoral body will replace special seats MPs and Councillors from the prior list submitted by political parties.