OIL and petroleum products stakeholders have welcomed huge benefits brought by the Bulk Procurement System(BPS), including significant reduction of fuel prices, increased compliance and transparency in the fuel sub-sector. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’, they lauded the government’s reforms which have ensured the country has an adequate supply of oil and petroleum products, saying the move has had a massive impact in economic development. Petroleum stakeholders and economists cited an improved regulatory regime, particularly the introduction of bulk procurement of petroleum products, as a leading cause of price stability, business flow and growth of the national economy. Executive Director of Tanzania Association of Oil Marketing Companies (TAOMAC) Mr Rafel Mgaya says that the BPS system has smoothened business by making oil prices affordable. According to the TAOMAC, the bulk procurement system enables dealers of petroleum products to consolidate their stock prediction and order as one. “BPS has ended cargo shortage and increased bargaining power among oil importers. It has also led to the importation of quality products at a lower price, and therefore benefiting end-users and the economy at large,” said Mr Mgaya. To further improve the fuel subsector, he advised the government to harmonise prices of importing oil products through Mtwara and Tanga ports, which were higher compared to the port of Dar es Salaam. Prof Honest Ngowi of Mzumbe University added that stable and predictable prices were good for the economy, as the country had powers of controlling not only price hikes, while also ensuring that there is no shortage. “However more needs to be done to promote economies of scale through harmonisation of petrol prices. BPS has given the country the power to determine our stock and prices, but there are still differences of prices from one region to another,” Prof Ngowi says. He advised that to achieve this, some taxes, levies and mode of transporting petroleum products to far regions like Kigoma, Kagera or Mara, should be done using cheaper means like railways and pipelines. Prof Ngowi said that the advice of using alternative ways of ensuring price parity would promote economies of scale. The Petroleum bulk procurement system was established two years ago to ensure supply at the most competitive prices, by purchasing from a pool of imports obtained from suppliers selected through a competitive bidding process to take the advantage of the economies of scale. “Bulk procurement enables a country to order and purchase petroleum products as one. This reduces the tediousness of individual orders, the stock is also shipped in large ships with a capacity of up to 120,000 tonnages,” Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (PBPA) Acting Executive Director, Erasto Mulokozi told the ‘Daily News’. “Bulk procurement of petroleum products has demonstrated numerous advantages including waiver of demurrage costs which amounted to 200bn/- per year from the year 2016 to date. Also, use of larger ships has decreased the price of shipping per tonne to 36 US dollars from 83 US dollars. This sums 300bn/- a year,” Mr Mulokozi revealed. On his side, EWURA’s Public Relations Manager, Mr Titus Kaguo, told the ‘Daily News’ that BPS has simplified its regulatory works and ensured that end users get quality products unhindered by a deficit of any kind.