TANZANIA Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) has embarked on the second phase of supplying clean and safe natural gas for residential needs in Mtwara and Lindi regions. TPDC Managing Director Dr James Mataragio revealed this here, saying that some 500 customers are expected to be covered in both regions. Some 300 customers will be connected in Mtwara and 200 in Lindi respectively. He said in the first phase, the state-run corporation connected 125 residential areas and four public institutions and industrial areas, including the giant Dangote Cement Plant in Mtwara. “We have already built the distribution network for supplying the gas with the capacity to connect over 5 000 customers in the Mtwara region,” he said. In another development, Dr Mataragio said the corporation is also implementing another project in the Coast Region, set to supply the gas for industrial and commercial needs in the region. He said four industries have already been connected to the distribution network, as more are lined up ready to be supplied with clean and safe natural gas by the corporation. The distribution of clean and safe natural gas is also conducted in Dar es Salaam, supplying the energy to public institutions, industries, residential and commercial areas. Dr Mataragio mentioned the University of Dar es Salaam, Mlalakuwa, Kilwa Road and Mbagala as some of the areas connected. Dr Mataragio said some 500 customers have already been connected to the distribution network as another project is currently underway to connect 500 more customers in the city. The project set to connect 5 00 customers was inaugurated by the Energy Minister Dr Medard Kalemani. Mtwara Regional Commissioner Gelasius Byakanwa commended TPDC for supplying the gas in residential areas in Mtwara. He said the move is a step ahead in ensuring the majority of the residents use natural gas. He said the region is set to ensure proper and improvement of infrastructure to enable the majority of the residents in the region use the gas.