MULEBA District Council has purchased some 23 mobile phones connected with the Ministry of Health services to increase Community Health Fund (CHF) members’ registration. Making the revelation in Bukoba on Monday, Muleba District Council Chairman, Mr Justus Magongo said two thirds of villages were conducting sensitisation programmes to educate households on the importance of joining the fund, but require networking and phone sevices. “At least two youths from the selected villages were recently trained on how to operate the mobile phones, which will be used in the registration exercise. The remaining 57 villages will be covered later,” he added. During a recent Regional Consultative Committee (RCC) meeting, Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti directed leaders in the area to increase efforts of educating the villagers on the importance of registering with Community Health Fund. “The region has to-date recorded about 4.9 per cent CHF registrations against the target of 30 per cent. We must work hard to reach at least ten per cent within three months. “The government's implementation of high-impact health programmes such as routine immunisation, Vitamin A supplementation, prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV, and improved management of common childhood illnesses, will collectively save lives of thousands of children across the country, but they must be reached through the Community Health Fund,” he pointed out. He added: “However, challenges persist and are preventable such as malaria, pneumonia, diarrhoea and neonatal conditions, which continue to claim the lives of Tanzanian children every day. “Early marriage and childbearing remain high in some regions and economic groups, worsening existing vulnerabilities.  Health systems and service delivery require strengthening. “By ensuring that health facilities are equipped to deliver comprehensive emergency obstetric and newborn care services, we can effectively address the fatal complications of childbirth, including severe bleeding, infection, prolonged or obstructed labour, eclampsia, and asphyxia in the newborn.” Kagera Region has a total of 336 health facilities, where 17 are Hospitals, 38 Health Centres and 281 Dispensaries. There are wide socio-economic and geographical disparities in child mortality, largely due to inequities in access to, and use of, health services.