WITH increasing share of unsubstantiated information in the social media and Online, Journalists have been advised to avoid circulating such news, or risk penalties including jail terms. The warning was issued during the ‘Freedom of Information, Viewing Existing Laws and Policies’ workshop and attended by various media stakeholders including the Civil Society Organisations in Zanzibar. Zanzibar Press Club (ZPC) Chairman, Mr Abdallah Abdulrahman Mfaume said: “People have been posting and forwarding materials and news through social media and the Internet…. I remind you that we have Cybercrime Unit and other laws are already in use. The only safe way is to stop posting and forwarding fake materials.” He further said the development of science and technology in the world has increased the scope of the provision and dissemination of information, but there is a need for precautionary measures to avoid panic and psychological harm to individuals and the society. Equally, he reiterated that publishing, posting, and circulating information and materials online and social media in the country was governed by laws, regulations and guidelines, therefore, journalists and other stakeholders should consider anticipated impact. “Information exchange in any country is governed by the rules and regulations. Ignorance about the laws is never an excuse. Let us be careful,” Mr Mfaume said at the forum organised by the Zanzibar Youth Forum (ZYF). However, he urged them to provide views that would help improve laws and policies that regulate the flow of information to expand the scope of freedom of information and freedom of expression. Commenting, a facilitator at the discussion, Mr Suleiman Seif Omar, who is also a media consultant and instructor at the Zanzibar University (ZU) said freedom of information, is hinged on laws and policies, which must be respected. He further said use of social media and means of receiving and disseminating information require respective authorities to look into ways of controlling people to use them in accordance with the law. “For example during the election, TCRA (Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority) opted to temporarily tamper with social media, affecting many of us who use social media for business or work,” Ms Shadida Omar said. Elaborating on some of the issues, Zanzibar Broadcasting Commission (ZBC) Executive Secretary, Omar Said Ameir said that was aimed at controlling misuse of social media, preserving peace, and stability.