PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa on Wednesday ordered Njombe Regional Commissioner, Eng Marwa Rubirya to make sure tea processing factories pay farmers on time. The Premier said he was aware that some factories delay payments to farmers, thus, discouraging them from engaging in production. Mr Majaliwa who was speaking to tea stakeholders in Njombe said that the government has created good environment for the country's tea farmers and investors in tea factories. The Premier also ordered the Ministry of Agriculture to introduce tea auctions in all areas that produce tea so as to create reliable market for the crop. He said the government is committed to ensure the crop benefits farmers and that it will continue to make a close follow up on production. “Farmers must be paid on time so that they can support their families and continue with farming, the government will always stand for farmers’ welfare,” the Prime Minister noted. He said tea is among major crops that boost the country’s economy by bringing in foreign currency. He said over 50,000 people have been employed in tea factories and plantations and that the crop also creates over 2 million indirect employments. The PM also invited foreign investors to come to the country and set up tea factories saying the government has already improved environment of doing business in the country. He said in 2016, the government strategically decided to push forward tea farming by scrapping some taxes to improve the sector and that it will continue to improve the sector to ensure more production. The Premier directed extension officers, government officials and other experts to always visit tea plantations so that farmers could get direct professional advises. “Government officials must be close to tea farmers, this sector could employ at least two million people if well managed,” said the Premier. On his side, the Minister for Agriculture, Prof Adolf Mkenda ordered all tea factories to pay tea farmers immediately. The minister said his ministry is working hard to ensure tea auction starts in May in Dar es Salaam. “Our focus is to launch tea auctioning in May this year in Dar es Salaam, this will ensure reliable and profitable market for tea farmers,” he said. The tea stakeholders chairperson, retired Speaker of National Assembly, Ms Anne Makinda asked the government to support Tea Board of Tanzania (TBT) and Tea Research Institute of Tanzania (TRIT) with expertise and equipment so that the two bodies could fulfill their duties as required. Tea is produced in 12 districts that are found in Mbeya, Njombe, Iringa, Tanga, Kagera and Kilimanjaro.