IN the article titled: THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION IS AFRICA’S TO LOSE’ author X.N Iraki of the University of Nairobi asks a big question: How shall Africa, a continent where joblessness is a huge problem, particularly among the youth react to the new reality—the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR)? The article was published in September 2018 in the Journal of Futures Studies. As it is now known, the key areas of focus in 4IR which is fast rolling out around the world include machine learning/artificial intelligence/robotics. Examples abounds: from self-driving cars to robots working in restaurants and factories to unmanned aerial vehicles used to help optimise agriculture operations to mention a few. In line with Iraki’s question, we can add others: Are we ready to utilise advantages brought by the 4IR? What are we doing? This new reality will definitely have impacts on us as Tanzanians and Africans at large; whether the effects will be positive or negative will depend on us. Are we aligning our policies and systems to move with others so that we become active participants in this phenomenon that is fast changing world’s affairs? One of the areas our policy makers and governments will have to work on quickly will be creating a pool of young people with passion and expertise in these relatively new fields and retain them for the good of Africa. Dr. Neema Mduma (32), a young Tanzanian computer scientist is one of such young people who hold the future of Africa in their hands. Creating conducive environment for them will mean a lot for the continent’s future. Because of her early mastery of mathematics, her parents and teachers influenced her into Engineering. But, later on, she realised the world is moving to digital economy where science and technology particularly computer science will be the main driver. “I switched to computer science and technology and studied Bachelor of Science in Information Technology,” she explains. After finishing her first degree, she joined the Nelson Mandela African Institute of Science and Technology (NMAIST) where she studied both Masters and PhD in Information and Communication Sciences and Engineering. Neema enjoys working in this field because she can use data to train models that will help to solve societal challenges be it in health, education, and agriculture among others. However, her great concern is that there is still fewer females engaging in this field. “This could be due to lack of interest or awareness since computer science and technology is relatively new in the society as compared with other fields,” the young scientist notes. She is inspired by Fei-Fei Li, a professor in the Computer Science Department at Stanford University in California, USA who played a big role in the ImageNet project, which helped to revolutionise the field of large-scale visual recognition. This Professor has published more than 200 scientific articles in top-tier journals and conferences such as Nature and NIPS. Neema was inspired by her success in Artificial Intelligence (AI). A California based don has been described as one of the AI pioneers, a field that Neema is working on and looking forward to apply it for the betterment of her society. Apart from imparting knowledge at the Nelson Mandela African Institute of Science and Technology, Neema is also the founder of BakiShule initiative that aims at preventing students from dropping out of school. This initiative is broader and includes a web based application called “BakiShule”, sensitisation and talks to secondary school students particularly girls. The idea of starting this initiative came up when she was doing her PhD which focused on addressing the problem of student dropout in secondary schools in Tanzania using machine learning model. Through this initiative, she was able to visit and reach out several secondary schools in Arusha and Morogoro regions. The “BakiShule” app was able to highlight students who were at risk of dropping out of school for close follow up and intervention. Through this initiative, Neema has been offering free trainings, inspirational talks and workshops to secondary school students especially girls, to encourage them to pursue science and expose them to fields such as data science, machine learning and artificial intelligence. A total of around 2000 secondary school girls have been reached in the past two years. “I target these fields due to the fact that they are male dominated and there are unfounded beliefs that females cannot excel well in science and technology,” she says, adding that she has been able to respond to thousands of questions from young girls regarding community’s perception towards women in science. Her talks have inspired and ignited science passion to most girls. Neema was born on 21st October 1989 in Morogoro, Tanzania. Her father is a pastor and her mother is a teacher. She started going to school at five years, just to accompany her mother. But, unknowingly, she was being slowly integrated into school environment and as it later turned out, she became a best student. She loved mathematics and particularly remembering Mr Msolla from Bungo Primary School who used to give them free lessons during the weekends on how to solve tricky mathematics questions and further cemented her foundation in the subject. She later joined Kilakala Secondary School in Morogoro for both her Ordinary Level (2003 – 2006) and Advanced Level (2007 – 2009). Her performance in secondary school was good, particularly in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics subjects. Neema would wish to see people use science and technology to solve societal challenges and increase the number of females in the field. She says: “Women have a deep understanding of societal challenges, impacting them with knowledge on science and technology will make it easier for them to come up with innovative solutions.” A lot is expected from her work as a lecturer and researcher at NM-AIST especially in addressing challenges such as climate change, hunger, and diseases among others. This puts her in a situation where she has to work hard in collaboration with other researchers/ institutions in and outside the country to come up with innovative and workable solutions. Apart from on-going efforts to empower girls in Tanzania, Neema thinks that economic empowerment such as ownBy Emmanuel Rubagumya I N the article titled: THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION IS AFRICA’S TO LOSE’ author X.N Iraki of the University of Nairobi asks a big question: How shall Africa, a continent where joblessness is a huge problem, particularly among the youth react to the new reality—the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR)? The article was published in September 2018 in the Journal of Futures Studies. As it is now known, the key areas of focus in 4IR which is fast rolling out around the world include machine learning/artificial intelligence/robotics. Examples abounds: from self-driving cars to robots working in restaurants and factories to unmanned aerial vehicles used to help optimise agriculture operations to mention a few. In line with Iraki’s question, we can add others: Are we ready to utilise advantages brought by the 4IR? What are we doing? This new reality will definitely have impacts on us as Tanzanians and Africans at large; whether the effects will be positive or negative will deing assets, financial independence and capital, risk management in business need to be emphasized. She believes that women have equal chance to become renowned scientists just like men; it only takes confidence, self-determination, hard work, and good mentorship “and these are not gender based.” As confident as she is, she remembers a day she second-guessed herself simply because she is a woman in a male-dominated career. It was the first time she was given a course to lecture in a class of around 200 students where most of them were way older than she. “The fact that I was a young lady I thought it would be difficult for me to manage such a class. But the class was very cooperative and interactive, probably one of the best class to lecture so far,” she recalls. She says young people should believe in themselves, set goals and working hard to pursue them, learn from others and take note from older people. The scientist believes in the power of prayers, so she normally prays before doing anything. Author’s Email: innovationstz@ gmail.com