PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa on Thursday expressed his satisfaction with measures taken to contain the destructive desert locusts. Having contained them on some fronts, the latest push was waging the fight at Engaruka ward in Monduli District in Arusha Region, with the arrival of Prime Minister pushing up the battle against the insects. With the Prime Minister's entourage are Minister for Agriculture Prof Adolf Mkenda, Deputy Agriculture Minister Mr Hussein Bashe, Regional Commissioners of Kilimanjaro, Arusha and Manyara -- Ms Anna Mghwira, Mr Iddy Kimanta and Mr Joseph Mkirikiti respectively. While control operations were continuing on the ground, Mr Majaliwa has said the government will improve the Agricultural Aviation Department in the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure regular survey in different parts of the country as well as control desert locusts and any other destructive insects. The department will also be engaging in coordinating different agricultural centres in the country with a view to reaching out to farmers to offer services in emergency like fighting desert locusts, other insects as well as offering diverse extension services and ensure food security. “We had in our ministry (Agriculture) the Agricultural Aviation Department ... we have to intensify it as well as put in place some centres even if these swarms come periodically. We have to always get ready to deal with emergencies," said the premier, who was happy with what agricultural experts have been doing in controlling the locusts. The Agricultural Aviation Department is an important part of the overall aviation and agriculture industries. Pilots and experts use aircraft to aid farmers in producing a safe, affordable and abundant supply of food and fight insects. For some days now, Minister Mkenda and his deputy Mr Bashe have been camping and moving from place to place with agricultural experts. Much has been done to contain the insects by spraying using special helicopters in places such as Longido, Siha, Mwanga, Simanjiro and Rombo districts in Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Manyara regions. Desert locusts are the most destructive migratory pests in the world. Thriving in moist conditions in semi-arid-to-arid environments, millions of locusts have been feeding throughout East Africa, devouring everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to the food supply and livelihoods of millions of people. The PM called upon the Ministry of Agriculture to come up with a special plan entailing on what is needed to be procured so that the government could fully safeguard crops in farms and save growers from such woes caused by such insects. He alerted the ministry to move on, use its experts at national level as well as those at regional and district levels in raising awareness among growers and the public on how to deal with different challenges such as swarms' invasion. The swarms can travel about 200 kilometres per day. The Prime Minister said Tanzania is collaborating with Kenya in dealing with the challenge, vowing that no single locust will be left alive. "No single locust will be left; we initiated the fight, we are fighting on and we will keep fighting ...we have joined forces with some neighbouring countries in the operation," said PM Majaliwa. Minister Professor Mkenda said the ministry has initiated a plan to offer training to the youth at Oljoro and Makuyuni National Service on how to spray against the insects. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), small swarms moved from southern Kenya to northeast Tanzania last month.