ARTISANAL miners at Malela small scale gold mine in Tarime District, Mara region blamed the Regional Mining Officer, Nyaisara Mgaya for allegedly failing to solve a local dispute between two miners. One of the miners, Marwa Mroni was accused to have extended his mining activities to the Kerende village government area and as far as another plot owned by another artisanal miner named Mwita Makindya. Speaking to the artisanal miners and several Kerende villagers on Wednesday, Mr Mgaya suggested that the two miners ( Mroni and Makindya ) should jointly come together and start mining activities in the disputed plot(s), though on rotational basis to end their disputes. However, the idea was strongly opposed by majority of the artisanal miners including Makindya. “Why should we have partnership… which section of the law stipulates that? “ posed Mr Makindya, while insisting that he legally owns the area and wants justice to take its course. In the meeting, the regional mining officer threatened to leave the conflict unsolved after his suggestion was rejected, saying: “If you don’t want to follow my piece of advice, then I will leave you to do what you think, but if people will die here… we will deal with you.” On his part, Ingwe Divisional Secretary James Yunge intervened and urged the regional mining officer to address the problem amicably instead of sitting on the fence. “If a miner has extended his mining activities to the government area and run into another mining, then there is a problem here,” MrYunge said. Commenting, Mr Mroni said he could not exactly tell the borders of his mining area, unless land and mining experts intervene. “I don’t know the demarcation of my borders, I am not mganga wa kienyeji (loosely translates as traditional magician),” he pointed out. The secretary of artisanal and small scale miners (security and safety) in Mara region, Mr Samwel Timase blamed the regional mining officer for allegedly failing to solve the conflict, saying he had personal interests in the case. “The action of suspending production here ( Malale gold mine ) is a big loss to the artisanal miners and the government has also lost revenue in terms of millions of shillings…we are asking for immediate ministry interventions,” he said. Asked to clarify the matter into details and his decision, Mr Mgaya shrugged off journalists saying: “This dispute still persists, so you will see how to report it.” His non-cooperation was however, not seen to be in line with President John Magufuli’s directive that government officials should cooperate and address challenges, which face the grassroots citizens.