TANZANIA Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) in collaboration with Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam, have organised the special Women’s Day Golf Fiddle tournament. The day long 18 -hole tournament that is scheduled to tee off today at par-72 Lugalo course, has been organised as part of the celebration of this year’s International Women’s Day, which is celebrated every 8th of March . Madina Iddi, a TLGU honorary secretary, told the ‘Daily News’ from Arusha yesterday that preparations for the event are on top gear. “I want to take this opportunity to invite all ladies golfers to come and participate at a special fiddle tournament to celebrate our day,” she said. Iddi extended her gratitude to the Lugalo club for their support and giving an opportunity for ladies to compete at this important event. “I want to thank TPDF Lugalo golf club leaders under chairmanship of Michael Luwongo and Captain Japhet Masai for their support and efforts to ensure the ladies’ game is given a desirable opportunity. “They have given us this important opportunity to hold a competition to celebrate the International Women’s Day at their course, they have always been good supporters to us and we value their support.” Iddi added that it is important for ladies to honour the day and turn up in good numbers to compete. “We extend our invitation to all women to participate in this competition. We are hoping to have a wonderful day, it’s good for our health and well-being,” she said. However, Iddi said that the organisers have considered everyone’s safety as per guided by the government to take all preventive measures against the spread of Coronavirus pandemic. Host club captain Hawa Wanyeche has also appealed for Lugalo members and visitors to save the date for the first ladies event to be held this year. “I think all the ladies golfers are doing great for the grace of God, its time for women to celebrate and in this regards, the club leadership has given us the opportunity to do a fiddle event, please come we celebrate together,” she said. Wanyeche added : “It is our day and I urge you all to come forward to enjoy the day as gifts, food, and much more will be available during the event."