NEWLY sworn-in President Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday described her departed predecessor the late President John Magufuli, as ‘a patriotic leader, who sacrificed himself to serve development managed ue from where her predecessor left, especially completion of all strategic development projects. “I want to assure you that we are strong as a nation and we ism, brotherhood, unity and tolerance and well-disciplined defence and security organs,” she said. In her brief inaugural speech to the nation, the new Head of State vowed to contin- woman. conso lation, Tanza nians yester day pre decessor his people.’ “We all witnessed his good will and thirst for bringing changes and great develop ment to our country. We are all witnesses of how he man aged to change the image of the country with actions and by his strong and unwavering leadership,” she pointed out, while addressing the nation through live-televised programme. Dr Magufuli died on Wednesday this week from heart complications, at about 6pm at Mzena Hospital in Dar es Salaam, where he was admitted on March 14. He was first briefly admitted to the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) on March 6 and subsequently discharged, only to be rushed to hospital on March 14 after feeling unwell. According to Mama Samia, the late President translated his wishes and great vision for the country through plans, strategies and implementation of mega projects. “It was luck to be his Vice- President. He was a leader who didn’t get tired to teach and instruct practically how he wanted things to be done. He taught me many things; he mentored and prepared me enough,” she explained. She added: “I can confidently say that we have lost a strong, patriotic and a visionary leader, who loved development and a true revolutionary African son. Actually, Dr Magufuli as catalyst in several changes, and his death has left a big gap.” However, she called upon Tanzanians to remain calm and patient while building unity and solidarity during this hard time. “I assure you that we (leaders) are well organized to ensure that we proceed from where our departed fellow leader stopped,” she said, while promising to follow the country’s Constitution which she promised to protect. She further said Tanzania has been blessed with a good treasure of leaders and strong principles of nationality, brotherhood and unity coupled with discipline of the national security forces.