RELIGIOUS leaders have condemned female genital mutilation (FGM), which is still taking roots in Tarime District in Mara Region. They blamed female circumcisers, locally known as Ngaribas, for turning FGM into an income-generating activity. They met to discuss best means of saving girls from continuing to undergo FGM in Tarime District thanks to the Association for Termination of Female Genital Mutilation (ATFGM Masanga) for making the long day meeting possible. The leaders met in Tarime town on Friday, a few days after the NGO (ATFGM Masanga) also brought together other anti-FGM key stakeholders from Tanzania and Kenya for a similar agenda. Some Kenyan communities bordering Tarime District have also been practising FGM, thus joint efforts in stopping the harmful culture from both sides is considered to be imperative. The faith leaders outlined root causes of FGM, child marriage and other gender-based violence acts (GBV) and proposed best means that can help to tackle the injustices in the area. One of the faith leaders identified as Pastor Peter Mahe from EAGT Itiryo village cited poverty as one of the reasons behind on-going FGM acts in the district. The pastor blamed female circumcisers locally known as Ngariba for turning FGM into one of their economic generating activities. Other speakers blamed some local politicians accusing them of not backing ongoing anti- FGM campaigns. Finally, they ended the talks by putting in place a strategic plan that will among other things involve condemning GBV acts, male dominance system (mfumo dume) and using religious programmes to spread anti-FGM campaigns targeting Ngariba and traditional leaders. So far, ATFGM Masanga has saved over 3,000 girls, who were at risk of undergoing forced FGM in the region, according to its project manager Mr Valerian Mgani. In December last year alone, more than 400 girls completed training in alternative rite of passage hosted by ATFGM – Masanga centre thanks to all partners supporting the initiative, including district and regional authorities.