President John Magufuli will be honoured during several public events in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Zanzibar and Mwanza before his burial Friday in his hometown Chato in Geita. Six days of events for Magufuli, who died Wednesday at age 61, include a private service at his longtime church in Dar es Salaam, public viewings in both cities and a state funeral. He will be buried next to his father Joseph Magufuli and his sister Monica Magufuli who died in 2018. TRANSPORT FROM STATE HOUSE TO ST PETER’S CHURCH Magufuli’s body was transported by a motorcade Saturday morning from the Dar es Salaam - Magogoni based State House. The casket was loaded onto a special van covered by Tanzania’s national flag and departed the State House through Barrack Obama drive through Ali Hassan Mwinyi to Oysterbay’s St Peters Church. Relatives accompanying the casket included his children, wife Janeth Magufuli along members of his immediate families. Dar es Salaam and Mbeya hosted a public tribute to Magufuli on Friday night. Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Aboubakar Kunenge had urged the public to freeze private celebrations throughout the 21 mourning days. Read also: President Samia vows "nothing will go wrong" TRASPORT TO UHURU STADIUM After the service at the St Peter’s Catholic Church where he and his wife regularly worshipped, Magufuli was taken to Uhuru Stadium on Saturday and arrived around 10:15 a.m local time. A public service was held before a public viewing of Magufuli’s casket. Senior government and public officials are scheduled to pay last respect at the stadium from 12:00 p.m until 2:00 pm on Saturday. A crowd of well-wishers lined up throughout the main roads with flowers and some dressing the highway with cloths. Security remained tight on all the roads from the church to the national stadium. According to the statement from President Samia Suluhu Hassan, the body of Magufuli will be loaded into a motorcade and transported back to Lugalo Military Hospital. On Sunday, a motorcade transporting Magufuli’s casket is scheduled to bring Magufuli to the national stadium for final public viewing. The casket was placed at a special desk to allow people to see it. It is the exact place the public attended to pay their final respect to former President Benjamin Mkapa in 2020. RETURN TO GEITA Before President Magufuli returns to his hometown, he will be flown to Dodoma, the country’s capital on Monday. President Samia said it will be a public day. The newly updated schedule shows Magufuli will be flown to Zanzibar on Tuesday and Mwanza on Wednesday. Family members and Geita residents will pay their last respect on Thursday. STATE FUNERAL IN CHATO In Geita, a state funeral is planned for Friday at Mlimani village in Geita’s Chato district. A full detailed schedule is yet to be released but it is expected there will be a private service before the burial. President Samia has ordered all government offices closed on Friday for a national day of mourning. She is also expected to attend the burial ceremony. Related: ‘forever in our hearts’ 