ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has underscored the role of religion in solving problems facing the society, urging Muslims to use places of worship, to discuss and find solutions to the challenges facing people. Dr Mwinyi issued the remarks at the weekend, after opening a newly-built Taqwaa Mosque at Gombani-ya-Kale in Chakechake, Pemba. “There is a perception that mosques are only for prayers, five times a day. It is high time you think differently. Mosques should also be places to find solutions to problems,” President Mwinyi said. He said that discussing issues in an acceptable manner within the community was the best way in utilising the place of worship to solve challenges facing believers. “There are many challenges facing people that can be solved within your reach,” he told the gathering. He further said those mosques including the one he opened, should have different departments to discuss issues facing certain members of the community like violence against children and women in the society, widows and divorced. “A large amount of money was spent in constructing this new mosque, therefore it should be a place for multiple activities for the development of followers and not only prayers,” President Mwinyi said. Dr Mwinyi assured the worshippers that he will make efforts to fulfill the promises he made during his election campaigns. He said that people need to see improved infrastructures, roads, better health care, education as well as safe, reliable and clean water, pledging that his government would strive to address those issues. President Mwinyi said the government would also maintain peace, security and political reconciliation which led to the birth of the Government of national Unity (GNU). He said people shouldn't be worried about the sustainability of political reconciliation in the absence of the late Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, who was among the architectors of the political reconciliation in the Indian Ocean semi-autonomous archipelagos. “Fortunately, we have his successor First Vice-President Mr Othman Masoud Othman, whom I have spoken to and he has promised to enhance the reconciliation along the footsteps of the founder," Dr Mwinyi said. Othman reiterated that only by maintaining unity, peace and reconciliation Zanzibar will move forward in achieving development goals as planned under President Mwinyi. 