DEPUTY Minister for Water, Engineer Maryprisca Mahundi has assured Ngara District’s residents that water problems facing them will soon be a thing of the past. Equally, she directed engineers under the Rural and Urban Water and Sanitation Agency (Ruwasa) to avoid colluding with unfaithful consultants who inflate Bill of Quantities (BoQ) charges for personal interest. She made the remarks on Tuesday during a meeting with Ngara District leaders, where she revealed that over 599m/- had been set aside for the implementation of Ngara Urban Water Supply project. Later, she inspected the Rusumo Water Supply project which is being implemented at a cost of 2.7bn/-, a loan from the World Bank (WB). “The project is surrounded by corruption. I will personally make a close follow-up to know the exact costs. Some engineers under Ruwasa have been colluding with unfaithful consultants to steal the funds which is taxpayers’ money,” she said. Engineer Mahundi cited a project where an unnamed consultant claimed over 40bn/- but later the project was completed at 500m/- using the Force Account. The Deputy Minister raised concern that some politicians who contested during 2020 general elections but failed were inciting people to vandalise the infrastructure. “I hereby direct Regional Police Commanders (RPCs) countrywide to take swift action and arraign the suspects before the court,” she said. Engineer Mahundi explained that the fifth phase government was keen to ensure that all villages get clean and safe water. “Our target is to ensure that women are relieved the burden of carrying a pail of water on their head. The water tanks should go direct into their households,” she said. However, she appealed to Tanzanians who access tap water to pay their bills promptly to enable the water projects to be sustainable. “During the climax of the Water Week celebrations on March 22 this year, all the projects should have been completed. We will launch the projects on that date countrywide without any further extension of time,” she stressed. Equally, she appealed for team work between the Rural and Urban Water Supply Authority (Ruwasa), Lake Victoria Water Basin and Bukoba Urban Water Sanitation Authority (Buwasa). However, she warned the workers to avoid setting water bills randomly to customers, adding that he recently opposed EWURA’s plan of increasing water tariffs until further notice when the evaluation team completes its task. She further revealed that the government allocated over 117bn/- to 17 regions facing critical water shortages, including Kagera Region which was allocated about 9.7bn/-. Ngara Legislator, Mr Ndayisaba Ruholo commended President John Magufuli for taking bold action to improve poor people’s lives through increased budget in key sectors, including health and education. He explained that to-date about 60 per cent of Ngara residents in villages access clean water.