THE Court of Appeal has rejected an appeal by two media bodies opposing the dismissal of a constitutional petition challenging the Media Services Act No 12 of 2016. The appellants, the Union of Tanzania Press Clubs and Halihalisi Publishers Limited had challenged the legality of a number of provisions in the Media Service Act, on a ground that they offend Article 18 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, 1977. But Justices Stella Mugasha, Ferdinand Wambali and Bakeh Sahel ruled against the UTPCs and Halihalisi Publishers after holding that the appeal was incompetent for being filed beyond the prescribed time as required by the law. “Since the appeal was filed beyond the prescribed period of 60 days from the date of lodging the notice of appeal, it is incompetent on account of time bar. We accordingly strike it out with costs,” they said in a judgment delivered recently, a decision which appears to confirm what was decided by the High Court. During the appeal hearing, the counsel for the appellants had contended, among others, that presiding judges erred in law and fact by ruling that the High Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the constitutional petition before. In their deliberations, the Justices of the Appeals Court noted that while the impugned decision was handed down on August 3, 2017, the appellants wrote a letter on September 25, 2017 to the District Registrar, seeking to be supplied with copies of certified proceedings, ruling and drawn order. After the registrar had acknowledged receipt of the appellants' letter, yet the appellants wrote another letter to him, intimating that they received the copies of rulings, proceedings and extract order on December 22, 2017. Thereafter, the District Registrar issued a certificate of delay. However, the justices pointed out that it is settled law that a valid certificate of delay is the one issued after the preparation and delivery of the requested copies of the proceedings, judgment or ruling and decree or drawn order of the High Court. That, they said, entails the Registrar of the High Court certifying and excluding such days from the date when the proceedings were requested to the date when the same were delivered to the intending appellant. In the case at hand, the impugned decision was delivered on August 3, 2017 and the appellants' letter dated September 25, 2017 requesting to be supplied with the certified documents was filed after 53 days and beyond the prescribed period of 30 days,” the justices said. They further noted that the certificate of delay also refers to a wrong party "the Republic" instead of the Attorney General. Thus, the justices ruled that the letter was in violation of the proviso to Rule 90 (1) of the Court of Appeal Rules. Consequently, according to them, the District Registrar erroneously referred in the certificate of delay a letter that did not comply with Rule 90 (1) of the Rules and apparently it negates her own acknowledgement on the receipt of the appellants' letter dated September 25, 2017. “Thus, the invalid letter adversely impacts on the certificate of delay, which is rendered defective and inoperative as it cannot be relied on by the appellants to rely on the exception stipulated under the proviso to Rule 90 (1) of the Rules,” the justices said. The counsel for the appellants had invited the court to cure and remedy the situation, by invoking the overriding objective principle embodied in the provisions of section 3A (1) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act, as amended by the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No 3) Act No. 8 of 2018. On this aspect, the justices pointed out that in terms of Article 107B of the Constitution, in exercising the powers of dispensing justice, all courts are enjoined to observe the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the land which includes the procedural laws. In this regard, they said, although the Court is enjoined to apply the overriding objective principle in order to achieve substantial justice, the Rules of the Court specifying the timelines are so prescribed with special and unique consideration and as such are requirements which must be complied with. “We decline to invoke overriding objective principle to remedy time barred appeal because it is in violation of Rule 90 (1) which prescribes the time limit of filing an appeal. To do otherwise is to condone non-compliance with laws which would plunge the administration of justice into chaos,” they ruled.