BUSINESSWOMAN Khofu Mlewa has lost her appeal on demand for compensation of 264m/- worth of goods sold by Commissioner for Customs and Excise of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for failure to pay custom duties and penalties amounting to 48m/-. This followed the decision of the Court of Appeal to dismiss with costs the appeal under which Mlewa, the appellant, had lodged to oppose findings of the High Court. In the impugned decision, the High Court had held that it lacked jurisdiction to hear the suit filed by appellant to challenge a seizure of her goods. 'The upshot of the matter is that the appeal is without merit. It stands dismissed with costs," declared a panel led by Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma and Justices Gerald Ndika and Mwanaisha Kwariko in favour of Commissioner General of TRA and Commissioner for Customs and Excise, who were the respondents. They ruled that the High Court correctly declined to entertain the appellant's recourse for want of jurisdiction. Before the High Court, the respondents had objected to its jurisdiction to determine the appellant suit for compensation as per section 7 of the Tax Revenue Appeals Act. Such law indicates that the Tax Revenue Appeals Board shall have sole original jurisdiction in all proceedings on disputes arising from revenue laws administered by TRA. During hearing of appeal, the appellant said that the trial court seriously erred in law by holding it has no power to entertain the suit. Deliberating on the appeal, the justices reaffirmed the position reached by the court in the case of New Musoma Textile Limited that, in terms of section 7 of the Act, the Board has the sole original jurisdiction in all proceedings of a civil nature arising from the revenue laws administered by the TRA. "It is also well established and (as the state lawyer) was perfectly right that courts would not normally entertain a matter for which a special forum has been established unless the aggrieved party can satisfy the court that no appropriate remedy is available in the special forum," they said. The justices noted that the appellant's action as pleaded in the plaint was a claim for compensation for the loss of her impounded uncustomed goods sold by the respondents following a compounding order having been made. Their careful analysis of the pleadings, they were respectful of the opinion that the key question raised by the appellant's claim was whether the respondents lawfully auctioned off the impounded goods. "As it is common ground that the goods were seized and dealt with under the provisions of the (Act), which is one of the scheduled laws administered by the TRA, the substance of the dispute is whether the respondents lawfully exercised their powers under that law in disposing of the goods," the justices said. The appellant was found in 2014 in possession of certain un-customed goods, which were then seized and deposited in a customs warehouse. After consultations and several correspondences between the parties, the appellant admitted in 2015 to have committed an offence. Acting on the admission, the Commissioner for Customs and Excise compounded the offence and the appellant was ordered to pay duties and penalties amounting to 48,326,824/71 before the goods could be released to her. On January 25, 2016, the appellant paid the sum as invoiced by the Commissioner for Customs and Excise. Upon presenting proof of payment and a release order to the Customs Warehouse officials, she learnt, rather surprisingly, that the said goods had been sold on January 20, 2016. Her demand for the goods having not been heeded by the Commissioner for Customs and Excise, she instituted a suit June 13, 2017 for payment of 264.4m/- as value of the goods. She also claimed interests on the sum of money, as well as on a loan of 50m/-she had taken to pay the duties and penalties. In their joint written statement of defence, the respondents blamed the appellant for failing to pay the duties and penalties in time in compliance with the compounding order.