VARIOUS analysts and academicians have been suggesting having “African solutions to African problems” which is the right approach to achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs or Agenda 30) and Agenda 2063 on the continent. Agenda 30 focuses on ending poverty and other deprivations together with having workable strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and boost economic growth, while at the same time taking care of the environment. In poverty eradication in particular, UN member countries have pledged to leave no one behind and reach those farthest behind first. This includes finding solutions to new threats caused by climate change and conflict. Agenda 2063 focuses on building an integrated, prosperous and peaceful Africa, driven and managed by its own citizens and representing a dynamic force internationally. It capitalises on the fact that success depends on unity of purpose, transparency, placing citizens’ first, sound governance, willingness and capability to assess performance and correct mistakes timely. All these need adequate investment in research on pressing Africa issues and development priorities. Yet, if you look at African research investments as a starting point, not much has been done. This is evidenced by two recent analyses published in the online journal BMJ Global Health. Study authors looked at African authors publishing research and comment on Covid-19 in Africa in the top five general medical and top five global health journals between January and September 30, 2020. According to the authors, while 1.3 billion people – 17 per cent of the world’s population – live in Africa, less that 4 per cent of articles related to Covid-19 and published in the top 10 medical journals are relevant to the continent. This is too little contribution to finding a long-term solution to this challenging global problem. They thus suggest that African representation in African Covid-19 literature is insufficient and posit that African governments should increase research resource allocations to build trust for academic institutions that will rapidly catalyse the contribution of African-led research in infectious diseases. However, they admit that despite the unusual circumstances, such as inadequate research funds and lower capacity, African scientists have made valuable contributions to the science of Covid-19. It is in light of this that we want to stress that there is a need to invest more in African research to increase valuable contributions not only to African, but also to global issues in general because we believe in global solidarity. As it is often said, we must ‘think globally and act locally’ and there is nothing more valuable than investing in African research. The more we find solutions to African problems, the more we will also contribute positively to finding solutions to global problems.