TWENTY-YEAR old Anadhati Mchongea appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, charged with two counts of trafficking in 239.25 grammes of heroin and 112.09 grammes of bhang, which are narcotic drugs. She was arraigned jointly with another person, Emanuel Msakuzi, alias Makuzi (23) with the two economic counts before Senior Resident Magistrate Rashid Chaungu. The duo was not allowed to enter plea to the charges because the case has been filed under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. Under such circumstances, the magistrate informed the accused persons that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail. He ordered them to remain in remand until March 22, 2021, when the case will be mentioned, as investigations are incomplete. Prosecuting, State Attorney Kijja Ruzingana told the court that on January 22, 2021 at Kauzeni in Kunduchi Beach area in Kinondoni District, in the city, jointly and together, the two accused persons were found trafficking heroin weighing 239.25 grammes. The court heard that on the same date and place in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, Anadhati and Msakuzi were found trafficking Cannabis Sativa, commonly known as bhang, weighing 112.09 grammes. Meanwhile, an employee with Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco), Jacob Ntupwa (51), was brought before the same court accused of computer related forgery, stealing over 48m/- and occasioning loss to a specified authority. He was not allowed to enter plea to the charges before Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi because the case falls under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate informed the accused that the court lacked jurisdiction to try the case. Magistrate Shaidi directed him to apply for bail to the High Court. He ordered the accused to stay in remand until March 22, 2021, when the case will be mentioned. Investigations, according to the prosecution, have not been completed. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon alleged that the accused person committed the offence on diverse dates between January 2015 and October 2018 in Ilala, Kinondoni and Temeke Districts in the commercial city of Dar es Salaam and in Kibaha District, Coast Region. It is alleged that within such period and places, being an employee of Tanesco, the accused person stole 48,264,357/06. The court heard that by his willful acts, Ntupwa caused Tanesco to suffer a pecuniary loss of such amount of money. The prosecution further told the court that within the same period and places, intentionally and unlawfully, the accused imputed and altered computer data, creating fake user accounts by generating Tanesco electricity tokens and received an undue advantage of 48,264,357/06.