RETIRED President Jakaya Kikwete has said he is confident the country is in safe hands since the newly sworn-in President, Samia Suluhu Hassan knows what has been done and needs to be done in the next five years. In a statement posted on his Twitter account he said he had the trouble to write briefly to express his condolences for the great tragedy that befell the country with the departure of President John Magufuli. He urged Tanzanians to cooperate with President Samia. "I never saw this coming; it is a great blow, our dear President Magufuli has left us unexpectedly. He has left us at a time his leadership was in great demand. We needed him to complete what he started and to do many good things he planned to do for our country and Tanzanians," he said. He said many people wished for Dr Magufuli to continue being the President for many years to come, but no one could change God's will. It is everyone's responsibility to pray for Dr Magufuli for the Lord to give him eternal rest. Expounding, he said Tanzanians would remember Dr Magufuli for many good things he did for the nation. “Indeed, Tanzania has lost a patriotic leader who is sincere, courageous and attentive.” Mr Kikwete further said in his message that the comforting thing for Tanzania was that his successor President Samia became his Vice-President from 2015 until his death. “She knows the details of what has been done and needs to be done in the next five years. Without a doubt, Tanzania is in safe hands.” "I congratulate President Samia on her short speech on Friday after being sworn in that was uplifting with hope. Let us pray for our President that God will guide her well in every decision and action she will take. I ask my fellow Tanzanians to cooperate with her so that she can lead Tanzania successfully," Mr Kikwete said in his statement. He added that he would like to extend his condolences to Mama Janet Magufuli and the whole family. “We are together in grief and mourning. We pray for patience and perseverance in this difficult time."