WHEN you say the word farmer, you immediately think of a man. However, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, in some countries, women raise and grow up to 80 per cent or more of the food we consume. Research shows that when women access land and start their farms, they are deeply empowered. They have more autonomy over their finances, more say within their families, and more influence within their communities. What’s more, research from the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation shows that if women had access to the same resources as men, we would be able to pull 150 million people out of hunger. That is no small feat! Not to mention, it’s been shown that women farmers are more involved in organic agriculture, women are key players in solving pieces to the global crisis that the world is involved in. Jacqueline Mzindakaya is one young woman who has refused to let fate pull her down. She is 37 years old and has already bagged more achievements than her peers. Jacqueline ventured into farming as a way to transform the productivity and prosperity of the sector as a whole. Born in Morogoro, Jacqueline enrolled at Kiezya Primary School in Kigoma Region in 1992 before completing her primary education in 1998. She then joined Iringa Girls Secondary School based in Iringa, in 1999, where she completed her Ordinary level in 2002 and joined Dakawa High School in Morogoro in 2003 and completed her Advanced level in 2005. Hailing from Rukwa, Jacqueline is a proud holder of a Bachelor degree in Public Administration and Management, obtained in 2008 from Kampala International University in Uganda. Jacqueline, who is the last born in the family of CCM veteran politician, Dr Chrisant Mzindakaya and Matilda Mzindakaya, after completing the studies in Uganda, she returned home and joined Barclays Bank for an internship before moving to Zec Group International as an administrator until 2013. “I grew up dreaming of self-employment, my employment at Zec helped me gain more skills after which later I decided to quit and started doing family business for another two years until 2014,”. “In the same year, I also decided to open a company called Msanda Company Limited and started the process of applying for a license to start a clearing and forwarding business. By 2015, I had completed all the procedures set by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for customs agents,” she says. Bubbling with confidence and without hesitation, as she felt ripe for business, in January 2016 Jacqueline officially started her business and opened her first office at the Mnazi Mmoja area in Dar es Salaam. “I thank God the business went well, and I managed to hire six employees, and as business grew, I hired more people until they reached ten,” says Jacqueline Jacqueline has had important experience as a customs agent, because she ventured into the business with inspiration from people around her who have been doing the same kind of business for a long time, that is why after a few years of learning she decided to open her own company. “The truth is that anyone can get into this kind of business irrespective of your gender, if you set your goals well and decide that you want to do it, then consider yourself capable,” she says. Last year, Jacqueline opened another company, Stacy Investment Company Limited, which specialises in agriculture, where she decided to buy a 200-acre farm in Rukwa Region of Nkasi District to pursue another dream. “Maize, beans and wheat are the main crops I grow, where I have decided to practice modern agriculture for increased productivity and production, and through this, I have managed to employ about seven people, but there are also seasonal workers during planting, harvesting and fertilizing,” narrates Jacqueline She says she chose the region because it is one of the food basket regions in Tanzania. Being the last born in her family, Jacqueline hails the support she gets from her family. “I have had tremendous support from my family and I don’t know how to thank them,” she says. Asked what advice she would give to other women, Jacqueline has this to say, “Don’t give up and be the best in whatever you do. To succeed you have to give your best. For those who do not have capital, there are financial institutions that provide loans, what they require from you is to form groups and apply for such loans, also there are loans provided by councils countrywide to women, youth and people with disabilities,” “It also requires you to commit 100 per cent to believe in yourself and your abilities, and surround yourself with people who believe in you and are also working tirelessly to make their dreams a reality, remember, all big projects and dreams break down into small, achievable goals; by taking it one step at a time, you can achieve anything,” she says. The young farmer draws her inspiration from her father, “My father told me to go to school and give it my best. He is my inspiration in farming and politics as well. I owe my success to him. He has his way of seeing things. The best thing he gave me is education,” Jacqueline says with a smile. Talking about women and leadership, she says as an apple does not fall far from its tree, she is slowly plunging herself into politics, believing that she can be a better leader since she has learned from her father who has held various positions at various levels in the country for a long time. “Last year I ran for Special Seats through the CCM Women Wing (UWT), because I grew up dreaming of entering into politics for a long time, based on the environment I grew in and the support from my father in my political journey. We were 28 candidates, and I managed to finish fifth, so I continued to participate in regional campaigns, I look forward to running again as my dreams of becoming a politician are not over yet” she says confidently. Jacqueline is among women who want to increase their participation in the legislature, since in its annual report on Women in Parliament, InterParliamentary Union (IPU) found as of January 1, 2021, the global share of women in national legislatures is at 25.5 per cent, just fractionally better than 24.9 per cent a year ago. According to the IPU report, the number of women holding the top job — president or prime minister — rose by only two — to 22. More than half of countries led by women are in Europe. But the number of countries where women hold half or more of ministerial portfolios dropped from 14 to 13. Twelve countries have no women ministers at all. Last year, Tanzania Media Women's Association (TAMWA) launched the ‘WanawakeWanaweza’ phase II project to improve the participation and representation of women as leaders in the political process in the country, and we hope this will work in Jacqueline’s favour.