THE government has warned unauthorised individuals and entities against the growing trend of violating the procedures of issuing sensitive information to the public, ordering them to respect the protocols set by the government. Chief Government Spokesperson, Dr Hassan Abbasi issued the warning yesterday after learning that in recent days, a section of media, individuals and some leaders from religious entities have indulged in issuing information about the government and its institutions without considering the basics of providing such information. “I have noticed a new trend whereby some people now issue statistics on various diseases, viruses, deaths and patients. I would like to emphasise on behalf of the government that it is not right,” he asserted. He added: “I urge the media to abstain from publishing information originating from unauthorised people. Citizens, civil society organisations, religious leaders and politicians are supposed to be involved in providing education, creating awareness on measures to avoid the virus; while allaying the public fear brought by the pandemic in the community.” He insisted that issues related to statistics and policy should be left into the hands of the government. Dr Abbassi, who also doubles as the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, said that the government has been providing its information according to the set procedures, asking anyone who needs information to reach out to government authorities since the doors are open. Dr Abbasi reminded the public that recently President John Magufuli instructed public leaders to keep the general public informed on the status of various development projects and events happening in their institutions. “I have seen the need to emphasise that the government has its own protocols and procedures when it comes to releasing public information,” he reiterated. He further stressed that people who are not allowed to provide information which is of public interest such as disease outbreaks should abstain from doing so. “The government has its own procedures and protocols to follow when issuing various information. People who are not charged with such responsibility should not interfere with the system or protocol. Giving an example of last years’ Coronavirus outbreak in the country where the president issued protocol of leaders who were authorised to give information, Dr Abbasi mentioned that apart from the president and prime minister, other government officials assigned the task was the health minister and the chief government spokesperson. On the other hand, he affirmed that the country is doing well in controlling the Covid- 19 pandemic; however, he urged people to continue taking precaution due to the continued interactions with neighbouring countries. “The president has guided us very well, that most of the citizens are free of fear, encouraging people to continue exercising, eating well and continuing with their daily responsibilities. People are working, and going to school; we thank God for continuing to provide us with health and physical strength, and we will continue to thank Him for that,” he said.