THE Parliamentary Standing Committee on Social Services and Community Development has expressed satisfaction over major reforms undertaken by Tanzania Broadcasting Cooperation (TBC) to improve its content and accessibility across the country. The committee was satisfied with spending of money on various projects undertaken by the national broadcaster. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanslaus Nyongo revealed this after visiting TBC offices in Mikocheni in Dar es Salaam and making a tour of the newly constructed TBC 2 studios and Aridhio News studio among other areas. "The newly constructed TBC 2 studios and its equipment worth 3.2bn/- is a real reflection of good spending and value for money which has been demonstrated by TBC. "We have witnessed major improvements which have been undertaken by TBC to improve its content through the Aridhio news programme which is loved by a cross-section of members from the society," said Mr Nyongo. He pointed out that such achievement is a reflection of good supervision from the TBC management, pledging to continue extending support in further improving the broadcasting sector and media industry as a whole. TBC Director General, Dr Ayoub Rioba was tasked by the committee to give a brief breakdown on how a sum of five billion which was dished out by the government has been spent. In his breakdown, Dr Rioba identified that 2.48bn/- was used for improving and strengthening accessibility of TBC broadcast in border areas where a large section of the people in the areas are forced to listen and watch radio and TV stations from neighboring countries. He pointed out that a sum of 1.8bn/- has been spent in replacing old and worn out equipment, since most of the equipment were procured in the 2000s, making them worn out and ready to be replaced. Besides, he said another 100m/-has been allocated for replacement of old furniture with new ones, noting that the rest of the funds will continue to be used as per the set plans. Dr Rioba further observed that TBC has embarked on the improvement of its digital unit, whereby they have procured different equipment, a vehicle and studio. "TBC has been working day and night to make sure these reforms make the station better compared to the past, and we have been improving our content to go in line with the current demand and time," said Dr Rioba. The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Mr Innocent Bashungwa said the bigger goal of TBC is to ensure viewers from all walks of life are satisfied with the content being generated, citing the Aridhio news programme which has attracted a huge audience. Mr Bashungwa pointed out that TBC 2 is going to focus mainly on developing content that touches the youth and entertainment in general. He said they are planning to produce attractive programmes on Tanzania Safari Channel and promote them in and outside the country. He pointed out that the plan is to involve COSOTA, BASATA and University of Dar es Salaam-Arts Department to support TBC with the issue of content generation. Also, the use of technology is among the areas that will be strengthened for the staff in all activities related to the media operations.