WOMEN from the East African Community (EAC) member states have been hailed for courageously withstanding Covid-19 threat by maintaining their services throughout the disease outbreak. EAC Secretary General, Amb Liberat Mfumukeko said women played a critical role in different capacities at office as well as at home. He cited the roles as healthcare workers, caregivers, innovators and community organisers and by doing so, they are ready to jeopardise their lives, sacrificing it for the sake of saving others. Amb Mfumukeko sees the role as exemplary to others and they need not only to be commended, but also to be afforded due respect and elevated to higher positions like those held by men because they are capable of leading. “Women stand at the front line of the Covid-19 crisis; as health care workers, caregivers, innovators, and community organisers ... some of the most exemplary and effective national leaders in combating the pandemic. The crisis has highlighted both the centrality of their contributions and the disproportionate burdens that women carry,” said Amb Mfumukeko over the weekend when EAC marked International Women’s Day. The outgoing SG who is the head of the EAC Secretariat is convinced that the women and the girl-child had borne the bulk of the negative effects of the pandemic. He cited an example that as schools resumed after different sorts of lockdown within partner states, it was noticed that a good number of girls failed to resume school due to teenage pregnancies. “Women leaders and women’s organisations have demonstrated their skills, knowledge and networks to effectively lead in Covid-19 response and recovery efforts. Today, there is more acceptance than ever before that women bring different experiences, perspectives and skills to the table and make irreplaceable contributions to decisions. As the old adage goes, what a man can do, a woman can do better,” said the SG. Amb Mfumukeko put it clear that the EAC had developed many important tools, among them the EAC Gender Policy, giving direction to gender equality, equity and nondiscrimination in the Community. “The EAC Gender Policy seeks to promote rights-based values, accountability and shared responsibility, equity in resource allocation, decisionmaking opportunities, benefits and access to services. It also calls for elimination of stereotypes, prejudices and other negative practices against women,” noted Amb Mfumukeko. In his remarks, he expressed concerns that despite the progress made within the Community in promoting women’s participation in governance, gaps remain in women’s representation at different levels of leadership and governance The situation, he exposed, is replicated at lower levels of the governance structures as well as within the organs and institutions of the EAC. Besides a number of achievements that the bloc has made in the empowerment of women and girls, it should never be forgotten that women still struggle to rise out of their status. In most societies, they are treated as second-class citizens. They are denied opportunities for fulfilling their economic and political aspirations. The Senior Advisor, Non- State Actors & Gender, EACGIZ Support to Market Driven and People Centred Integration Programme (SEAMPEC), Ms Joyce Abalo, underlined that both German Development Cooperation in general and GIZ as a company have, for many decades, pursued the goal of gender equality in their worldwide portfolio and have striven to achieve compatibility of career development and family work as an important step towards equality of women and men. “Equality of women and men should not only be in general numbers. It is particularly important to increase the number of women in leading positions, and this calls for a change of attitude of all involved – women and men, employers and employees, labour law makers, health insurers and many more,” said Ms Abalo.