IN the East African region, Tanzania is one of the best performing countries in women’s participation in leadership. According to Tanzania Gender Network (TGNP) Director General Lilian Liundi, the latest Inter-parliamentary Union (IPU) figures show that by 2020, Tanzania, with 36.9 per cent of women Members of Parliament, ranked second in East Africa and 23rd in the world. It is for this reason that this year, TGNP has decided to share its activities with the media in collaboration with its various stakeholders in celebrating International Women’s Day on March 8. “We have not been able to reach 50/50 and so, we have to increase our efforts to increase the role of women at various levels of decisionmaking to achieve the intended goals,” says Ms Liundi. She says so because the representation of women in political leadership positions at council level has remained a major challenge, despite the efforts of various stakeholders such as government, civil society, and development partners. Statistics released by the National Electoral Commission (NEC) last year showed that the number of women councillors elected from the ward is 204, which is equivalent to 5 per cent of all councillors. Elected councillors are the ones who have the opportunity to run for, and hold position of chairman of the council, the person who is also the chairman of the general council which has the authority to discuss and approve the council’s budget. It should be noted that more than 80 per cent of the population lives in rural and ward areas, and the source of the country’s development is at that level. Thus, the limited participation of women in these important and strategic positions is a challenge in bringing about inclusive gender equality and sustainable development. This year, the global theme for International Women’s Day is “Women in Leadership: Achieving Equality in a World of Covid-19”, while the national theme is “Women in Leadership: Yeast for an Equal World”. TGNP insists on changing attitudes to bring about equality. Ms Liundi argues that this year’s celebration is unique in the revolutionary women’s liberation movement, as women and women rights activists come together to celebrate what they have achieved. “We are reflecting on the ongoing challenges facing women and strategise on how to address them using the opportunities at the individual, group and national (systemic) levels,” she says. It should be noted that Tanzania has the first woman Vice President Hon Samia Suluhu Hassan who will now be holding the position for two consecutive terms from 2015-2020 and this phase 2020-2025. “This is a commendable move. For the first time in our country the 10th parliament has been able to get a female Speaker of the House Hon Mama Anne Makinda and in the 11th and 12th parliament we have a Deputy Speaker who is Dr Tulia Akson. However, Parliamentary committees representation of women as committee chairpersons is still limited,” she says. The TGNP plans to hold this World Women’s Day celebration for the entire month of March, under the global and national theme, with their main message being “Change Attitudes to Equality”. This year’s International Women’s Day celebrations are aimed at recognizing and celebrating women’s achievements in combating unfriendly systems in various sectors, she says. This includes setting strategies aimed at increasing the number of women in leadership positions of various kinds - political, private sector, to ensure that Tanzania has a gender-equitable system. “We hope to discuss in detail the importance of valuing women’s contribution to society, and further highlighting the increase in unpaid work and strategising to reduce that workload for women,” she says. The aim is to increase dialogue in society on oral and non-constructive and productive statements on the wellbeing of women and the development of society, and to influence society to increase their participation in creating positive stories. The TGNP Director says five major events will be held in March as part of the International Women’s Day celebrations. These events include a visit to media houses at national and social level from 5-30 March, 2021.