INTERNATIONAL communities still remember and honour the former President of Tanzania, Benjamin William Mkapa and so far, the African Wildlife Foundation has just launched a special photography award in honour of the late Head of State, recognising the deceased leader’s legacy as a journalist, politician and a conservationist. The African Wildlife Foundation’s Media Specialist, Wambui Odhiambo stated in a press statement made available here through the AWF Field Communications Manager, Jacqueline Kubania reveals that the award running under the theme of ‘Bringing Africa to the World and the World to Africa’ is meant to create a platform for Africans to embrace conservation through photography and to value the beauty of its nature. Former First Lady, Mama Anna Mkapa was the Guest of Honour during the launch of ‘Benjamin Mkapa Photography Award’ which is meant to also serve as a precursor to the 60th Anniversary of African Wildlife Foundation since its establishment in 1961. The AWF is teaming up with Nature’s Best Photography (NBP) to run the competition in honour of the late, iconic African leader and former Tanzanian President recognising Mkapa’s leadership in conservation, education, and his passionate support for AWF programmes. Professional, Amateur and Youth (18 and younger) photographers are free to enter the competition opening on April 5, 2021 and running through June 2021. The results are scheduled to be revealed at an awards ceremony in November 2021. Entrants will have the opportunity to win cash, prizes, and awards totaling USD $33,000 equivalent to 80 million/-. “We value innovation and technological mechanisms that can scale up AWF’s work and impact, like digital technologies that can create new experiences by more directly connecting people to wildlands and wildlife,” the AWF Chief Executive Officer Kaddu Sebunya stated during the competition launch. “We aim to break degrees of separation between people and nature and create ownership, transparency, demonstrated impact, and personalisation. This is what the Benjamin Mkapa African Wildlife Photography Awards is all about,” Sebunya maintained. In line with AWF’s mission to ensure wildlife and wildlands thrive in modern Africa and Nature’s Best’s to celebrate the natural world through the art of photography and visual storytelling, the competition’s goal is to engage, involve, and attract photographers at all levels of expertise, while encouraging young talent to become advocates for generational behavioural change towards wildlife conservation. The Grand Prize Winner will be awarded USD $5,000 (approximately TSh12m) an interview and portfolio in Nature’s Best Photography magazine, and publication in a special edition of Nature’s Best devoted to the Mkapa Photography Awards. The category winners will each be awarded USD $1,000 ( approximately TSh2.3m) and will be featured in Nature’s Best special edition. There will be two Youth overall Winners: one African-based and one Global Winner. The competition will enhance the visibility of African wildlife through the following categories: African Wildlife Behaviour, African Wildlife Portraits, Wildlife at Risk, Fragile Wilderness, African Conservation Heroes, Wildlife In Modern Africa: Coexistence And Conflict, Art in Nature, and through Africa in Motion/Video category, participants will be able to submit footage of natural wildlife behaviour and outdoor experiences in wildlands. In further elaboration of the new awards, Nature’s Best Photography President Stephen Freligh said, “Through my 30-plus years as a publisher of photographic works, I have personally witnessed the positive impact of combining the creative and documentary talents of professional, amateur, and youth photographers alike.