SIMBA SC head coach Didier Gomes Da Rosa has expressed satisfaction with his side’simpressive performance following a resounding 3-0 win over Al-Merrikh but warns that it is not over yet. Simba maintained their serene run in the group stage of the continental premier club tournament after goals from Luis Miquissone, Mohamed Hussein and Chris Mugalu secured maximum points against Merrikh. The victory saw Simba maintain their grip on top position in Group A with 10 points, three points ahead of second-placed and reigning African champions Al-Ahly. The French tactician said post match there is still more to be done for the Reds to secure a slot in the CAF Champions League quarter-finals. They need at least a point to confirm their quarterfinal birth. And Da Rosa said his charges will keep on working hard and called on his players to stay focused as well maintain their current good form ahead of the last two outings. Up next will be a tricky fixture against Congolese side AS Vita at National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, where Simba have proved to be invincible. It will be a must win game for Vita Club, who occupy third place on four points. “Our next game against AS Vita will be a tough one as it is a decisive match which will be vital for both sides, we know our opponents and we saw them playing against Ahly in Cairo and Lubumbashi, they’re very good side and dangerous so we need to stay focused and in-form to ensure we outsmart them,” said Da Rosa. Simba have enjoyed a serene run in CAF Champions League this campaign, setting up impressive records in what promises to be a remarkable season for the Reds. Four games, four clean sheets, five goals and ten points bagged, Simba are unarguably finding their place among the continent’s elites. And Da Rosa is more than impressed with his new side’s fine form. “We are very satisfied with our progress and performance for sure, we scored three times, we played a very good retention game and like you see, we now have 10 points today (Tuesday), we have also kept the lead of this group but as I said before nothing is done yet, we need one point to be sure of reaching the quarter-finals.” Concerning Tuesday’s encounter, Da Rosa said; “For sure we were a little bit tired, you know we have played a lot of matches since one month ago, a lot so we can explain our slow start. “But I cannot have believed if, before the competition, someone told me you will get 10 points after four matches, so it is a very good win, we must continue, we must focus on reaching the quarter-finals and like I said nothing is done for now.” Da Rosa insisted their goal is to progress into the last eight of the leading African club competition and is upbeat the Tanzanian champions will complete their task in hand in the remaining two fixtures. Meanwhile, Al Merrikh coach Lee Clark believes his side still stands a chance to reach the quarter-finals despite lying at the bottom ofthe group with a single point disclosing that mathematically it is possible as they have two games in hand as winning both will see them with seven points. Match-Day Four saw defending champions Al Ahly put their campaign back on track with a well-worked 3-0 victory away to AS Vita Club at the Stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa on Tuesday. The victory helped the Red Devils move to seven points, three clear of the Congolese side. With two rounds of matches left to play, Ahly have primed themselves to fight for a slot in the last eight despite dropping points in two back to back matches