EFFORTS by the government to encourage citizens to invent medicine, including herbal remedies, have borne fruit after a lecturer at the College of Wildlife Management Mweka (CAWM-Mweka) invented medicine believed to cure Covid-19 and other diseases related to respiratory challenges. The good news was given by the inventor of the medicine, Dr Never Mwambela, on the occasion of marking World Wildlife Day at the college in Kibosho, Moshi, on Wednesday. "I have invented the medicine named Coviba and this is due to the fact that Covid-19 and other therapeutics for breathing difficulties are now big challenges not only for Tanzanians, but also for the whole world.” “Before embarking on a mission that led to the invention of Coviba which turned my discovery into treatment, I was exploring other types of medicine, including those used to treat skin diseases,” she said. The researcher and discoverer of various herbal remedies said that in her discovery, among others, she uses a variety of plants, including the traditional trees found in the country. "For example, I have conducted various studies and produced six publications and published one book based on research related to a tree whose parts I used to invent Coviba,” she said. She thanked the government for cooperating with her and said health officials from the Kilimanjaro Regional Secretariat had supported her throughout her innovation processes. “We have already started a Coviba drug registration process after its success in helping several people. This is due to the fact that the medicine must be approved by the government through its relevant authorities before entering the market,” she said. She added: "once the medicine was in the market, people would use it according to the frequency recommended by health experts." CAWM-Mweka Acting Deputy Rector (Planning, Finance and Administration), Dr Emmanuel Martin, said to mark World Wildlife Day the management had established a botanic farm, where participants took part in planting herbs. “The botanic farm will comprise many varieties of medicinal plants. It will be a focal point for doctors, herbalists and botanists. Plants will be marked with symbols signifying their uses,” he said. He noted that the botanic farm would have at least 1,000 traditional herbs with potential medicinal applications and would also focus on enhancing the value of medicinal plants.