SERENGETI Breweries Limited (SBL) has partnered with residents of Kongwa District in Dodoma Region to plant trees as part of an environmental conservation program run by the brewer. The Speaker of the National Assembly, Job Ndugai, Kongwa District Council officials are among the leaders who took part in the tree planting exercise, an initiative jointly organized by SBL and a Dodoma based NGO called Habari Development Association. Kongwa District and by extension Dodoma region feature a semi-arid climate with warm to hot temperatures throughout the year. Speaking at the event, SBL Managing Director Mark Ocitti said the tree planting in the Kongwa District is part of an ongoing environmental conservation effort by the company to plant thousands of trees in various parts of the country. In 2019, the Managing Director said, SBL planted trees in Same and Moshi districts to support effort of increasing vegetation cover around Mount Kilimanjaro. “SBL considers trees as an essential part of the ecosystem. They filter water bodies, provide habitat to terrestrial biodiversity, absorb harmful carbon from the atmosphere and are useful for medicinal purposes. Our business and the community at large are part and parcel of this ecosystem which makes it a shared responsibility by all of us to conserve and protect the environment,” Ocitti emphasized. The tree planting initiative by SBL comes when there are worldwide concerted efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions both regionally and globally to combat climate change and guarantee a safe and protected environment for future generations. On his part, Speaker Ndugai commended SBL for supporting the initiative noting that trees and plants have a special relationship with people and, therefore, human society cannot thrive without them. The Speaker decried ongoing wanton deforestation as the chief cause of climate change that has posed the biggest environmental challenges facing humanity today, including adverse impact on food production, water availability, wildlife and human health. “I believe that this tree-planting exercise today will inspire people in Kongwa and other parts of the country to plant more trees at every given opportunity. I also appeal to other organizations to start thinking about our planet and how they can contribute to its protection,” he said.