PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has asked Tanzanians to ignore the widely circulating rumour involving the health status of President John Magufuli, insisting that the Head of State is well and he is going about his activities. “President Magufuli is in good health and he is going about his duties as usual while we, his aides, are going around the country serving wananchi. I spoke to him today and he asked me to convey his greetings to you,” Prime Minister Majaliwa said after attending Friday prayers on Friday in Njombe region where he is on a working tour. He said Tanzanians must continue to maintain unity, including consolidating peace and ignore rumours and hate speech peddled by individuals who do not wish the country well, especially on the health of President Magufuli. “Let’s continue to hold prayers and listen to sermons that embrace peace and tranquility,” he added. He said the President discharges his responsibilities according to his work plan, saying citizens ought to maintain social cohesion, including embracing peace and tranquility. "Let us ignore some Tanzanians who are just full of hatred, full of jealousy and want to witness the nation collapsing. These past few days I have seen fellow Tanzanians who are envious and who are not in the country, telling the international media that the President of Tanzania is sick and that he has locked himself up. This is just hatred and jealousy,” he reiterated. "Remain calm, your leadership is strong, and we can witness the success. Peddling rumours that the president is sick, that is hatred. They say he should go out, where do you want him to go? Have you ever found him wandering the streets of Kariakoo? The president has his own work plan and he is not a wanderer,” said Premier Majaliwa. He said the president has his assistants from national to village level, and they work in accordance with his work plan. On Friday morning, Tanzania’s High Commissioner to Namibia, Modestus Kipilimba told the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation that news circulating of the illness of President Magufuli that claimed he had been flown to Kenya and then India in critical condition with Covid-19 was utterly untrue. "For me what I know is that he's OK, he's going on with his work," he told Namibian Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) in an interview. President Magufuli has always been asking citizens to embrace home grown solutions in combating Covid-19, including praying to the Almighty God since God has never failed in anything.