AS the body of former President Dr John Magufuli is scheduled to be flown to Mwanza Region today, Busisi residents, the home village of the deceased's widow Janeth Magufuli have been accorded a special opportunity to pay their last respect. The body of Dr Magufuli was flown to Zanzibar yesterday to allow the residents to pay their last respect to the former Union President. Speaking at Amani Stadium in Zanzibar, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who is the chairperson of the funeral committee said that the body of Dr Magufuli was to lie at the State House in the Isles yesterday before being transported to Mwanza today. The PM said that upon arrival in Mwanza, the body will be transported by road through Kigongo - Busisi Bridge and stop at Busisi, the home village of Dr Magufuli's widow Mama Janeth to allow the residents to pay their last respect. "A township next to the bridge is Busisi, the home of Mama Janeth Magufuli, the motorcade carrying the body of the late Magufuli will stop there for ten minutes to allow elders and relatives to bid their final farewell to the fallen president." he said. Majaliwa added that thereafter the motorcade will head to Sengerema District and then Geita through Katoro and finally to the deceased's homeland in Chato where he will be laid to rest at the family gravesite on March 26. A 3.2 km Kigongo-Busisi Bridge across Lake Victoria is among the major projects initiated during the leadership of Dr Magufuli. The bridge is expected to stimulate production in fisheries and agricultural sector, thus boosting industrial economy in the northern regions and facilitate trade with neighbouring countries of Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and the DR Congo. Upon completion, the Kigongo-Busisi Bridge will be the longest above lake water bridge in the East African region. The bridge will be connected to 34km road from Mwanza and will have 28.4 metres width. Meanwhile, ordinary citizens have expressed their deepest sympathy through social media following the death of Dr Magufuli. Mr Stephen Kamugisha posted “Magufuli's death is painful. He was an authentic leader, creative, intelligent, pragmatist, and people oriented. It will take many years to have a leader like Magufuli in the whole of Africa.” Another Tanzanian, Mr Adolf Justini noted that the passing of President Magufuli is a great loss to Tanzania and the world. “It is with deepest sympathy we share and express our sincerest condolences. He leaves a legacy of respect and admiration. He was admired for his accomplishments and achievements in service to Tanzania and humanity,” he said. Mr Javan Brouz on his part spoke of the humility of the late President Magufuli. “It is very rare if not impossible to find a president who cries with those crying and laughs with those laughing. Magufuli, you will live to be remembered for the great work. Rest in peace Africa’s hero,” he asserted. Mr Barnabas Musimenta​so said that it was sad that the nation loses such a brilliant, down to earth leader. “We will forever miss his ways and approaches towards leadership. I'm a Ugandan but surely we shall miss him. Mungu ampumzishe kwa Amani (May God rest his soul in eternal peace).” “You may be gone but will never be forgotten, because you live in our hearts. Oh Son of Africa, we pray that may the Almighty receive you and give you a special place. Amen,” Ms Sameera Sumar posted. While Mr Bosto Okello said that, such a strong leader indeed. May he rest in eternal peace. “You deserved to be a hero of Africa.” Ms Grace Masawe was quoted saying that a hero is peacefully sleeping. “We loved you, but God loved you more; there is no way out, may God strengthen all Tanzanians.” In another post, Ms Mwanaidi Mbaga remarked that surely God tests us on what his people love the most. “We are to thank you, for your work is never wrong even when we are deeply hurt we ask you to strengthen us at such trying times.” “Human beings are destined to die, but to this day it is hard to accept such news; farewell Mzee,” commented Rahabu Matulu.