COMPLETION of the ongoing expansion of Tanga port would improve Tanzania’s capacity of handing fuel and other consignments to all parts of Zambia, Malawi and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), it has been revealed. The Ministry of Works and Transport through Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) is undertaking a number of projects in the country’s ports, as part of its efforts to improve service delivery and increase government revenues. Speaking on Wednesday in Tanga region during Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s tour of the Port of Tanga, TPA Director General Eng Deusdedith Kakoko said currently, Tanzania is supplying a total of 6 million tonnes of fuel and that the ongoing strategies will double the capacity as a result of winning the market in all neighbouring countries. He said the Port of Tanga is also scheduled to be supplying fuel to Zanzibar, against the current arrangement where the Isles are importing the petroleum consignment from the Port of Dar es Salaam. “Zanzibar is so close to Tanga, therefore the new arrangement will save cost and time of delivering the consignment to the isles,” said the TPA boss. Eng Kakoko added that, in winning the confidence and market of the neighbouring countries Democratic Republic of Congo in particular, Tanzania is now using railway lines to Kigoma, a move that guarantees the consignment of the petroleum product would arrive in the destination within two days ready to be shipped to Kalemie Port. “But by using vehicles, the consignment has to pass through Burundi before entering Congo, as a result of the delay,” he explained to the vice-president while at the GBP Oil Jet at the Port of Tanga. For his part, the Minister for Works and Transport Eng Leonard Chamuriho said improvement of the Tanga Port has reduced the cost of operation and attracted investors. According to the minister, the depth at the Port of Tanga has been deepened to 15meters from 3.5-4 meters. As a result of enabling large ships to dock in the facility as a result of improving proactivity and service delivery from the harbour to the northern zone port. “With the expansion, now the Tanga Port can receive ships of between 35,000 to 65,000 tonnes.  Recently the port received a ship that has 55,000 tonnes, this is a milestone achievement that we should be proud of,” he said. “Right now, we are in a process of procuring more equipment that would make the Tanga Port a country’s main harbour in the northern zone that is capable of serving all northern regions and neighbouring countries such as Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),” Eng Chamuriho added. According to Minister Chamuriho, the government has invested in flow meters, which are used to measure the volume of fuel to be dispatched to clients, a move that has helped timely delivery of fuel, as well as addressing scarcity of fuel as it was the case in the past. The minister went on to invite suppliers of fuel to neighbouring counties to make better use of the Port of Tanga in bid to ease congestion in the Dar es Salaam based facility. Briefing the vice-president, the GBP Managing Director Mr Badar Seif Sood said the facility is capable of preserving the petroleum product for the Northern zone and other parts of the country. He also appreciated the government’s improvement of the investment climate. “We thank the government for installing flow meters here, apart from ensuring timely delivery service; it will protect us from incurring loss as well as enable the government to get its actual revenue from our business,” he said. Speaking on the role played by GBP at the Tanga Port, Mama Samia said the private sector is playing a crucial role in the country's development, assuring the government's continued support for better service delivery. She underscored that both the government and private sector are depending on each other, calling for continued hard working from all government officials and investors in the sector. The vice-president asked the employees to work hard for the growth of the business they are working for, to enable investors to be able to pay government tax that would be used to implement a number of development projects. “You are doing a good job and the government will continue providing all the needed support.  Moreover you have to work hard for the interest of the economic growth of our country and individual level,” said Mama Samia. Tanga Regional Commissioner, Martine Shigella said the decision to make the Port of Tanga a main hub for consignment to the Northern zone should be maintained in a manner that ensures none of the suppliers opt for Dar es Salaam port. The RC said by doing so the government would be protecting employment in Tanga and road infrastructure from being damaged by the cargo trucks.