COUNCILLORS have accused Sumbawanga District Council (SDC) Executive Director (DED) in Rukwa Region, Nyangi Msemakweli of abuse of office and misappropriation of funds. On Friday, members of the council’s Committee of Finance, Administration and Planning lodged their grievances and four serious accusations against DED before Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Joachim Wangabo at his office. A team of councillors, including Kwela MP Deus Sanga, was led by the SDC Vice Chairman Apolinary Macheta (CCM), accusing Mr Msemakweli of abuse of his office. They also accused him of misappropriating 157m/-, being funds of SDC set aside for the implementation of various development projects. Before the RC, they alleged that they had refused to work with Mr Msemakweli, accusing him of undermining them and using foul language during a recent committee meeting held in Lalela Township, the headquarters of Sumbawanga District Council. According to them, DED has been calling them bad names, boasting that they have no mandate whatsoever to question him on anything except President John Magufuli and the Chief Secretary. Mr Macheta briefed Mr Wangabo during the council meeting held recently at Laela that Mr Msemakweli had humiliated him by hitting him on his shoulder and poking finger in his face. "During the committee meeting, we questioned him over the actual expenditure of over 157m/-, but he turned violent and poked his fingers in my face, saying he was favoured by the Head of the State,” he claimed. He further listed four accusations against SDC Executive Director including theft of construction items valued over 17m/- meant for District Hospital project at Mtowisa Ward along the Lake Rukwa Rift Valley Basin. He said they asked him about the expenditure of more than 60m/- set for accomplishing a bus terminal facility whose construction had been stalled. "We also queried him who had given him power to spend over 45m/-, being SDC domestic revenue collection for the preparation of the October general election, while the central government had allocated and disbursed the funds. We also asked explanation from him on how the 45m/- set aside for purchasing a vehicle was spent," he explained. For his part, Mr Sangu said he had decided to walk out of the committee meeting due to undesirable behaviour and abusive remarks traded by DED against him. He said worse still, DED openly and with confidence accused members of the Parliamentary Local Authority Accounts Committee (LAAC) for allegedly soliciting a bribe of over 10 billion from him. “He (Msemakweli) boasted that even the so called Controller and Auditor General (CAG) wanted to carry out financial auditing in SDC, but the CAG postponed such an exercise after the Head of State intervened. Then he confronted and asked me who I am to have an audacity of querying him (Mr Msemakweli)," explained the Kwela MP. Similar sentiments were echoed by another MPs Omelina Mgawe and Paulina Kisiwa, the Special Seats MPs, who were also members of the Council Finance, Leadership and Planning Committee. Another on the list is Mfinga councillor from Lake Rukwa Rift Valley Basin, Mr Patrick Mbalelile. Sumbawanga District Commissioner (DC), Dr Halfany Haule, said although he was not officially admitted to attend the SDC Finance, Leadership and Plannig Committee meeting, he had a report that DED had allegedly misbehaved before the councillors. On his part, RC Wangabo told the aggrieved councillors that Mr Msemakweli was also accused of not being at peace with Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Bernard Makali. "I will inform all that you have told me. Surely, I’m very disappointed at his behaviour. One person can never disturb us. We will deal with him in accordance with the law, rules and regulations. Such behaviour is unacceptable in the region," Mr Wangabo said. The RC openly told the aggrieved councillors that DED had been misbehaving without even showing due respect to RAS Makali. "This is a big problem. I will deal with it squarely," noted RC. He commended SMC Vice Chairman Macheta for his wisdom of not confronting DED although he was hurt.