NIGERIAN multinational publicly traded cement manufacturer, Dangote Cement Plc, has commended Tanzania for her unique investment in the gas sector. Mtwara-based Dangote Cement Factory Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Eng Abdullahi Baba said that Tanzania, like Nigeria, is endowed with large reserves of natural gas and its use for automotive applications has significant financial and environmental benefits. Eng Baba said the availability of large reserves of the natural gas make Tanzania an investor dream destination in the area of cement production. “It is really very rare to have Cement Company operating with every material needed including the energy sources all coming from the local country,” he said. Eng Baba revealed that the Dangote Cement Factory is set to build the second Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) station in Dar es Salaam Region. He was speaking at the launch of the first CNG station here, where he noted that the second facility in the commercial city will be similar to the newly-launched with the capacity of 5000 Standard Cubic Metres per hour. Both the facilities aim at providing clean, safe and much lower cost fuel to trucks of the Dangote Cement factory. “This facility we are witnessing here will be followed closely by a similar one in Dar es Salaam which will be a copy and paste version of this one. All these including the conversion of 250 tracks will cost the company the sum of 9 million US dollars,” he said. He urged the government to support the factory with suitable land to set up the station in Dar es Salaam. “We solicit the support of the government to secure suitable land that meets the requirement of this kind of facility around Dar es Salaam, as a strong show of support and encouragement by the government,” he noted. Eng Baba said the Dar es Salaam facility will be followed closely by daughter stations in Morogoro and Songea. Commenting on the first CNG Station in Mtwara, Eng Baba said the station with a capacity of 5000 Standard Cubic Meters per hour (equivalent to 5000 litres of Automated Gas Oil) will be used to provide clean, safe and much lower cost fuel to 250 of its trucks. The trucks have been converted to run on two fuels, AGO and CNG, at the same time. The station’s capacity will be sufficient to support the company’s future fuel strategy including the use of 100 per cent CNG trucks on the major dedicated routes. Dangote has led the way in the market through the implementation of the technology with strong support from the government. Dangote is now poised to become the country’s second largest consumer of gas after Tanesco.