IT has never been a walk in the park for cassava farmers in the country as, despite grappling with adverse effects of climate change, they are forced to count their losses caused by viral diseases. It is unfortunate that, for ages now, the production of the vital important food security crop, cassava, has been severely constrained leaving many farm households into food insecurity, hunger and resource poor. Among other factors, viral diseases including cassava mosaic disease (CMD) and cassava brown streak disease (CBSD) that are transmitted by the African Cassava Whiteflies have been in the forefront in causing sleepless nights to farmers, by severely crippling the production of the vital crop. Cassava Whiteflies, scientifically known as Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae), has been reported as a serious cassava pest that spreads the most important cassava diseases, cassava mosaic and brown streak in sub-Saharan Africa and is responsible for yield losses of up to 90 per cent of the root yield that may results in a significant decline of annual household income of up to 40 per cent. Research efforts to improve cassava yields by combating CMD and CBSD have been underway. Efforts mainly focused on the generation of cassava varieties that are resistant to the viruses that causes the diseases. However, the management of the viruses spreading vector, a whitefly, was not much considered. This fact was a major reason for the development of the so-called the African Cassava Whitefly Project (ACWP). ACWP is a four-year project that aims on developing technologies that will help in the control of the whiteflies. The recent finding by the ACWP, slowly resumes the lost smiles on the faces of cassava farmers not only in Tanzania but also in Malawi, Uganda and elsewhere on the continent. Under ACWP, Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute sub-centre at Mikocheni (TARI Mikocheni) in collaboration with the Department of Agricultural Research Services (DARS) in Malawi, the National Crops Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI) in Uganda and the Greenwich University (UK) has decided to embark on the development of sustainable strategies for managing cassava whiteflies in Tanzania, Malawi and Uganda. The Project Principal Investigator from Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute, Kibaha Centre (TARI Kibaha) Dr Esther Masumba said that ACWP is internationally led by the Natural Resources Institute (NRI) of the University Greenwich and funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates foundation. The project falls within the foundation’s Agricultural Development Strategy to increase sustainable productivity for millions of poor farming families in sub-Saharan Africa that depend on cassava as a key staple food crop. ACWP team in Tanzania collaborates with a global research team of over 50 scientists, postgraduate students, technicians and experts. In addition, Dr Masumba narrated that “The Second Phase of the African Cassava Whitefly Project (ACWP2), started after the completion of the first-phase of the same project. This phase strives on the reduction of the effects caused by infestation by cassava whiteflies in the country. In this phase researchers focus on ensuring farmers participation in testing of the two main whitefly control technologies including use of improved varieties that are resistant to the pest and application of insecticides as a measure to control whiteflies resulting on increased cassava productivity and hence increased income. She added that “In Tanzania, the ACWP2 activities are being implemented in the most important cassava growing regions including Tanga, Coast, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Mwanza and Mara. Currently, eight districts implement project activities including Muheza, Mkinga, Mkuranga, Bagamoyo, Chalinze, Mtwara rural, Nyasa, Bunda and Sengerema.” Dr Masumba also said, “We are focused to ensure farmers boost their food security and increase their production. We collaborate with other countries to share knowledge and experiences on how to develop varieties that are resistant to cassava mosaic and brown streak diseases, and identify and test user-friendly insecticides that can be used by the farmers to reduce the whitefly population in cassava fields.” Dr Masumba calls upon farmers to adopt the new technologies that have been developed by researchers and will be used to address the increased whitefly population and subsequently control of the most important cassava diseases that cause higher yield losses in the country. Cassava is cultivated and produced in almost all agro-ecologies present in Tanzania. The main producing areas are: Mwanza, Mara, Geita, Mtwara, Lindi, Shinyanga, Tanga, Ruvuma, Kigoma, Coast regions, Morogoro and most parts of Zanzibar. According to the Project Entomologist, Dr Zuberi Seguni, a survey was carried out in the Phase 1 of the project on social economics of cassava production in the country. Results revealed that, farmers have knowledge on CMD and CBSD, but had little knowledge on how to manage the main spreader of these diseases, whiteflies. Dr Seguni explained that, “Because of this, it was considered important that Phase 2 of the African Cassava Whitefly Project works to generate cassava varieties that apart from having resistance to CMD and CBSD, they should also possess resistance to the vector, Whitefly. The promising developed varieties should ultimately be officially released and promoted for use by farmers. In addition, farmers and agricultural extension officers training on the user-friendly technologies to control whitefly should be done to reduce effects due to cassava diseases at farm gate level, he elaborated. According to Dr Seguni, the ACWP will provide a system wide approach that will enable farmers control whiteflies at farm-gate level and retard the spread of cassava viral diseases. Over the years, TARI has developed a number of improved varieties and educated farmers on the right ways of using pesticides in a bid to help farmers stick to modern farming to increase their incomes, while overcoming climate change challenges. Agriculture plays a critical role in the economy and livelihood. The TARI Director General, Dr Geofrey Mkamilo narrated that, TARI being a semi-autonomous body of the Government under the Ministry of Agriculture, established under Act No. 10 of 2016, among others has been given a mandate to conduct research by developing technologies and innovations; regulate research activities; promote and disseminate the developed technologies and innovation and finally coordinate all agricultural research activities in the country. Dr Mkamillo said that the institution is also responsible for contributing seed multiplication and dissemination, collaboration, consultancy plan for technology and Innovations development, and technology and innovation dissemination Monitoring and Evaluation. TARI Mikocheni Manager Dr Zuberi Bira said that Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute -Mikocheni Centre (TARI-Mikocheni) is one of the 17 research centres under TARI, adding that the centre has two mandates, namely to conduct and promote research for the development of the coconut sub-sector and promote research and utilisation of agricultural biotechnology for socio-economic development in the country.