YOUNG Africans’ quest to finish this Mainland Premier League season with unbeaten record vanished into thin air, following a 2-1 defeat to Coast Union at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Thursday. Tuisila Kisinda missed a penalty early on before Erick Msagati put Coastal Union ahead from close range. Kisinda amended his penalty miss with an equaliser shortly before the break but Coastal Union restored their lead in the second half through youthful Mudathir Said. Yanga were also seeking to end five year run without victory against Coastal Union at the Mkwakwani Stadium but again, they failed to kill the jinx. As expected, it was a tough call for the Jangwani Street based club, who of recent have been experiencing topsy- turvy results in their league outings, in which, they have managed to  pocket six points in their previous five matches. Yanga stamped three stalemates against Tanzania Prisons (1-1), Mbeya City (1-1), Kagera Sugar (3-3), winning 1-0 over Mtibwa Sugar before succumbing to defeat yesterday. Following the defeat, Yanga’s grip of the top spot remains wobbly as traditional rivals and second placed Simba are high on their heels. Regardless, they still sit top of the pile on 49 points from 22 outings just four points above defending champions Simba, who are second on 45 points from 19 matches. The victory has elevated Coastal Union to the tenth place on 26 points from 22 matches. The match started at a cracking pace as the ball swung from side to side and in the 7th minute Yanga won a spot kick after Fiston Abdul Razak appeared to have been fouled inside the box but landed out of the area. Referee Raphael Ikambi pointed to the spot and Kisinda stepped up only to see his feeble shot comfortably gathered by the goalkeeper Abubakar Abbas Ibrahim. However, three minutes later Msagati powered home the opener for Coastal Union from close range. It all started from a long ball from the right that dropped in the area and keeper Faroukh Shikalo failed to block the attempt, only for the ball to land on the path of Msagati, who fired home. In the 17th minute, Feisal Salum attempted a 30-yard shot that was calmly collected by the keeper. Yanga pulled level in the 37th minute, when Kisinda outwrestled a defender and his initial shot was blocked by the keeper but the Congolese maintained his follow up to head home at the yawning net. Five minutes before the break, Farid Mussa missed a clear opportunity to put Yanga ahead, when he raced clear past defenders but he squeezed his shot wide past the advancing keeper. After the break, Yanga came strongly and in the 49th minute, Yakouba Sogne failed to make contact with the ball after he outmuscled a defender. In the 71st minute, Coastal survived a scare, when Yanga ferociously powered forward but Deus Kaseke’s drive was blocked by the keeper. They were almost punished from the ineptness two minutes later when Hamad Rajab ‘Majimengi’ pocked the ball from Bakari Mwamnyeto and raced down the left side but his powerful low shot was tipped off by the keeper for a corner kick.  Majimengi was a constant threat to Yanga defenders throughout the evening yesterday. With seven minutes to go, Coastal Union stole the winner. Majimengi dribbled past Kaseke and released the ball to Said, who also took a turn past defenders before firing a low drive that beat Shikhalo at the far post.