SITTING dejectedly at the bus stop, the young lady of about 25 years looked lost, and if anyone had paid a closer attention, they would have seen the tears flowing freely from her face. A woman sitting next to her noticed the anguish written on the young woman’s face, and being a mother of daughters much the same age as her, she inquired gently on the nature and cause of her sadness. It was as if the well of tears was waiting for a chance to spill over, because the young lady started crying uncontrollably, forcing the older woman to gather her protectively in her arms. When she finally managed to control the flow of tears and restored her calmness, she narrated her ordeal to the motherly woman, who was enough to take her to a quiet place to avoid the curious looks of bystanders. Edna (not her real name) had just completed her Diploma in journalism, and was attached to one of the major newspapers as a correspondent. To her, it was a dream come true, because for so long she had been harboring dreams of becoming a successful journalist, walking in the shadows of her idol, Christiane Amanpour, the Chief International Anchor for CNN and host of CNN an international night interview programme. It took her exactly one month to realize that her journey to stardom was not going to be as easy as she anticipated, after her stories were rejected one by one by the news editor without any tangible explanation. She told the kind looking woman that she was forced to seek the council of a female colleague, who advised her to be bold enough and ask the news editor on the outcome of her stories. At first the news editor, who according to her was old enough to be her father, beat around the bush, but eventually told her that for him to respond to her queries, they have to meet after work for drinks. She told the woman that she convinced herself that the meeting that evening was going to be a professional one, where they were going to discuss the shortcomings of her stories, if any, and come up with tangible solutions. When she arrived at the agreed meeting point, a very private bar in Sinza, she could not locate her boss, but before she could make any move, a waiter approached her and told her that the man was waiting for her ‘in his private chambers’. He instructed her to follow him, and he led her to a door on the second floor which was partially open. He told her that she could enter because the boss was waiting for her inside. She found her boss in the room, sitting on a massive bed, with only a towel wrapped around his massive belly. “It was a shock to me, and I stood there shaking like a leaf, but before I could do anything, he rose from the bed and closed the door, before trying to force me on the bed,” she told the woman as a fresh wave of tears flowed from her eyes. She managed to escape, she told the woman, and that is how she found her as she contemplated on her next move at the bus stop. Sexual corruption in Tanzania’s media houses is a widespread phenomenon in the country, and while the distasteful trend has been in existence for years, its subliminal nature, owing to unreported cases, has enabled it to flourish. According to a survey conducted by Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA), sexual corruption in media houses exists, although most of the victims are silent. In their compiled report from that survey that covered major media houses in Dar es Salaam, they discovered that there are so many different causes and environment that lead to sexual corruption, where sometimes it is the journalist or their bosses that have lustful desires. “It is very rare for journalists to complain about sexual corruption because no one has authority,” says Rose Ruben, the TAMWA Director. She says that women working in the media also face a myriad of challenges according to studies conducted on their status. According to the ‘Who Makes the News - Global Media Monitoring Project 2015’ the role of a woman journalist in a newsroom is full of challenges: discrimination in the assignment of reporting work, pay gap, sexual harassment and difficulties combining family and work life are only some of the challenges female journalists have to tackle in their everyday work. In Tanzania, although much progress has been made towards gender equality, the overall scenario is that women and girls continue to suffer gender based violence, discrimination in access to employment, health services, education and decision making processes. Section 25 of Tanzania’s anti-corruption law of 2007 states: “Anybody being in the position of power or authority, who in the exercise of his authority, demands or imposes sexual favors, or any other favors on any person as a condition for giving employment, a promotion, a right, a privilege, or any other preferential treatment, commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine of not exceeding five million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or both.” TAMWA suggests that it is important for all media houses to have a gender policy with a component of sexual corruption, because lack of the policies has contributed to inadequate steps to take action against sexual corruption in the media sector. “We advocated for enactment of the Sexual Offences Special Provisions Act (SOSPA) and there is law in place to deal with corruption, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act (2007),” says Ms Ruben.