WOMEN just like any other human being living in the planet earth created by God want and deserve an equal future free from stigma, stereotypes and violence; a future that’s sustainable, peaceful, with equal rights and opportunities for all. To get us there, the world needs women at every table where decisions are being made. That approach today brings us to the International Women’s Day, where the UN Women (read the world, regardless of governments) is working to provide support to all women on the front lines of the fight against this pandemic; promoting flexible working arrangements; and prioritising services to prevent gender-based domestic violence and above all bring all to contribute in their countries economic developments. With this year’s theme, “Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world,” the world including Tanzania is celebrating the tremendous efforts by women and girls in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. Women’s full and effective participation and leadership in all areas of life drives progress for everyone. Yet, women are still underrepresented in public life and decision-making, as revealed in the UN Secretary-General’s recent report- Commission on the Status of Women Sixty-fifth session edition. Whether government(s), institutions, and companies, you name it we need to motivate and encourage women, because investing in women can provide a great stimulus to economic growth, known as the “gender dividend”. When they are the focus of business decisions, communities grow around them, because they perform 66 per cent of the world’s work, produce 50 per cent of the food, but earn only 10 per cent of the income and own 1-2 per cent of the property, which should prompt one to ask why is this still the case. In addition to boosting economic growth, investing in women produces a multiplier effect – women reinvest a large portion of their income in their families and communities. Women also play key roles in creating peaceful and stable societies –important factors for economic growth. Unfortunately, these benefits have not been universally recognized and have therefore not translated into women’s full economic participation. Women still face obstacles when trying to establish new businesses or expand existing ones. Among the biggest hurdles are discriminatory laws, regulations and business conditions, as well as women’s lack of access to property rights, finance, training, technology, markets, mentors, and networks. For that matter women should not agree to be left behind in their individual developments and general national economic growth and to reinforce this we must recall and promote James Aggrey school of thought that “If you educate a man, you educate an individual. But if you educate a woman, you educate a nation.”