TANZANIA Association of Accountants (TAA) on Tuesday organised a mentorship programme in Dar es Salaam for its members aimed at encouraging them to fully participate in the country’s middle-income economy regardless of one being a fresh graduate. Opening the workshop, TAA Chairman Organising Committee, CPA Gerry Lufingo said accountants and auditors, who are professionals in handling financial matters, should know that they have a great role to play in the country’s industrialization drive that is shaped by financial discipline. He further said: “You (Accountants and Auditors) should constantly realize that growth and industrailisation of the country means money at the core, and you are the engine of any business making money, hence, use your skills to assist the government realize the goal.” Facilitating the mentorship, Ernst & Young Partner Assurance Dr Neema Kiure Mssusa, who is also Tanzania Association of Women Certified Accountants (TAWCA) chairperson, encouraged the pool of Accountants, Auditors whether fresh graduates especially women as well as other professionals in different fields from various sectors to apply work ethics while delivering to the clients. Narrating her own accession to the post she said: “If you feel you don’t have personality or confidence, then fake it on top of the skills you acquired in school to do the work. I have never seen a doctor telling a patient that he does not know the cure of his/her patient ailment, what he will say is to consult a colleague, why must you as an auditor tell your client pointblank that you have no solution to his financial advice?. She said TAA will keep on assisting its members including those willing to register afresh from colleges with mentorship as a plough back to the community so that they all participate in the growth of the economy. “Equally, TAWCA provides a supportive environment and valuable resources for members to achieve their professional, personal and economic goals through networking and various programmes. The association also promotes those aspiring to become certified accountants and young girls to enroll in the accountancy profession and encourages them to explore their personal and professional ambitions. TAWCA members are inspiring to show in many ways that professionals, leaders, rising leaders and influencers are making a difference for women in the accounting profession.” On his part TAA President, CPA Peter Mwambuja said: “The Tanzania Association of Accountants is an accountancy professional organisation for accountants established in 1983 under the Friendly Societies Act of 1954, as a members’ representative body of all professional accountants and aspiring accountants registered and working in Tanzania, hence this is an organization worth registering with if you are an Accountant or an Auditor. “TAA’s mission is to provide services to and on behalf of its members in public accounting, industry, education and government aimed at facilitating their professional and social development and promote public confidence in their services. “Membership of the Association is open to professionally qualified accountants, accounting firms, accountancy training institutions and students associations who are registered with National Board of Accountants and Auditors.”