PREPARATIONS for receiving the body of president John Magufuli ready for paying last respects have been completed, Urban West regional Commissioner Idrissa kitwana said yesterday as he appealed to residents to continue praying for him. “preparations are ready and we are waiting for receiving the coffin in Zanzibar to allow people to pay their last respects to their beloved Magufuli,” Mr kitwana said at a press conference he held at his office in Vuga. He asked mourners not to be chaotic to avoid stampede, instead to be tolerant. earlier, State Minister in the Second Vice-president’s Office (policy, Coordination and House of representatives), Dr khalid Salum Mohamed, announced that government offices would be closed tomorrow today (March 23) to enable civil servants to join other residents to pay their last respects to president John Magufuli. He said government leaders would receive the coffin at abeid amani karume International airport (aakIa) at about 7.30am before proceeding to amani Stadium, where they would lead mourners in paying their last respects to Dr Magufuli, who died suddenly last Wednesday. Dr Mohamed urged mourners to line up alongside airport-Mombasa-kwa Mchina- Mwanakwerekwe-amani road in Urban West region on Unguja Island to show love and bid farewell to the iconic leader. “The government has decided that today people shouldn’t go to work, instead they will go to amani Stadium starting from 7.45am. Leaders, officers from UN offices and consulates here will begin to pay their respects to Dr Magufuli after which members of the public will follow,” Dr Mohamed said, adding that Hindu, anglican, Muslim and roman Catholic leaders would lead prayers. President Hussein ali Hassan Mwinyi is expected to give a speech before citizens are allowed to pay their respects, including students from secondary and higher learning institutions. The minister directed regional and district commissioners to help and ensure that all people in their respective areas, who wanted to go to amani Stadium to pay their last respects to Dr Magufuli do so and also comply with Union president Samia Suluhu Hassan’s directives to place condolence books in their offices. Meanwhile, many people flocked to former House of representative’s building, kikwajuni, to sign a condolence book for Dr Magufuli. Former Mps led by Mr parmukh Hoogan Sigh were among the people who turned out to sign the condolence book.