YOUNG Africans said efforts to search for new coach are unfolding well despite clearing the incumbent caretaker coach Juma Mwambusi to be in charge of the team for the remainder of the season. Mwambusi has been given the green light to steer the team until the end of the campaign thereby filling the void left behind by the recently sacked Head Coach Cedric Kaze. He has a big task to guide them to the season’s championship which has been their number one priority since the start of the campaign and they still remain on the right course to challenge for the title despite registering poor results in their recent games. But, speaking yesterday, the club’s Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli said the procedures to snatch new coach have reached at a promising stage such that if he comes in before the season, he will be simply assessing the team and not necessarily coaching. “For now, the technical committee has authorised Mwambusi to fully take all responsibilities of the team in terms of coaching aspect until the season ends. As such, if the new trainer is found before the season elapses, he will have ample time to scrutinise the squad and provide recommendations ahead of the next term,” he said. He added that the club has big trust in Mwambusi bearing in mind that he was the one who started the season with the team before the coming in of Zlatico Krmpotic who also had a brief spell at the helm of the club. Moreover, Bumbuli said it is the best time for Mwambusi to work hard and help the side lift the title this season after missing the championship for many years. “We need to give him maximum support throughout the season so that our mission should be amicably achieved,” he said. Yanga remain at the top of the Mainland Premier League with 50 points from 23 matches and have scored 36 goals while conceding 14 goals in the process. On second slot are defending champions Simba who have attained 45 points from 20 encounters netting 46 goals. Azam are glued on third place with 44 points from 24 engagements while Biashara United and KMC finish up the top five package after picking 39 points and 35 points respectively.