BURUNDI has hailed Tanzania for major improvements in port and railway infrastructure that has eased cargo transport between the two countries. The Burundi Minister for Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation, Albert Shingiro said in Kigoma last week that upgrading of the Kigoma port and a railway infrastructure had reduced import and export costs for Burundi traders and it was being reflected in the prices of goods in the neighbouring East African Community (EAC) member state. “We are very happy to come and tour this port. We commend the government and the port management for the great work they have done to improve infrastructure. This will make it easier for our traders and reduce shipping costs and product prices,” said Ambassador Shigori who toured the Kigoma port after the 6th session of the Permanent Joint Commission for Cooperation between Burundi & Tanzania held in Kigoma. Ambassador Shigori and his delegation had toured the port to see improved services and infrastructure at Kigoma port and on-going construction work at an extensive dry port at Katosho in the Lake zone region and cargo and passenger pier. The government is upgrading Kigoma port become the final destination for cargo from Burundi and Eastern DRC (Kigoma Port of Destination, CIF Kigoma). “We will continue to use the ports of Kigoma and now we have easy access as we have two ways; one is road to transport cargo to the regions and a water route to Bujumbura,” said Ambassador Shigori. The Minister for Works and Transport, Dr Leonard Chamuriho said the government would continue to improve port infrastructure alongside railways and ships to facilitate the business environment in the country. He said in improving the transport environment the government has a strategy to increase shipping by repairing MT Sangara, MV Liemba and MV Mwongozo ships which he said by the end of the year will all be operational. He added that the government is also in the process of building a 4000-tonne large ship on Lake Tanganyika. “I urge our fellow Burundians to continue using this port and other ports to transport cargo as 99 per cent of your cargo passes here safely,” he said. The Director General of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) which manages Lake Tanganyika ports, Deusdedit Kakoko, said the idea for the construction of Kigoma ports was due to an increase in demand for port services due to the inadequate infrastructure. He said due to the increased demand for port services they came up with the idea of building a dry port of Katosho for handling incoming and outgoing cargo. The TPA boss said the project had started by paying compensation for the area, construction of a perimeter wall. The first phase of the project would begin with construction of 40,000 square meters, a parking area for 100 trucks and offices. “We expect the project to be completed in June next year because construction works are expected to begin in April this year,” he said. He added that the dry port would also be connected to the railway in the second phase of construction to be able to carry cargo directly to the port by train. Earlier, presenting the performance report of Kigoma Port, the Acting Manager of the Port, Augustino Nyoni said improvements to ports had helped increase cargo from 139,317 tonnes in 2015/16 to 680,000 tonnes in 2018/19 equivalent to an average increase of 10 per cent per annum. He said other improvements were continuing, including the construction of a small port at Kibirizi that involves construction of a pier, office, passenger building and three warehouses. He also said that there is a construction of an office building for Lake Tanganyika ports in Kigoma, whose construction has reached 85 per cent.