THE government decision to establish Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) metrology services is meant to ensure all goods produced in the country meet the required standards. The Director in the Directorate of Metrology Services at TBS, Johanes Maganga said the metrology laboratory services are in line with the efforts to ensure that Tanzanians use appropriate measurements. “The objective of establishing the metrology directorate is to control quality of goods, test the quality standards of goods and offer services in industries as well as providing technical advice to manufacturers,” he said. He added, “The metrology laboratory measurements play a key role in trade, industry and scientific laboratories without which world trade would be thrown into chaos.” The objective of the metrology measurement, he said, is to find out the quantitative value of a physical parameter depending on the level of sophistication involved. According to the Standard Act no 2 of 2009, TBS through its metrology laboratory is the custodian of all national measurement standards in Tanzania. Mr Maganga said TBS has nine laboratories, of which eight have received international accreditation certificate. The laboratories are namely Food, Microbiology, Chemical as well as Garments, Hides and Cotton. Others are laboratories measuring Packaging materials, Electric equipment, Machinery engineering, Construction and Metrology. The TBS metrology laboratory is an accredited laboratory which has been given the statutory responsibility for establishing custody and maintenance of the national measurement standards related to all physical parameters, at internationally accepted level of accuracy and to disseminate the International System of Units (SI) of measurement by providing traceability to the public via the national measurement standards. The laboratory undertakes apex level calibration of measurement standards and precision instruments in various fields of measurements, such as length, mass, temperature, time intervals, volume, including vertical and horizontal bulk storage tanks, pressure, and electrical measurements in DC/ AC voltage at low frequency as well as current and resistance. Mr Maganga said a total of 125 employees are working in the eight laboratories at TBS with the exception of garments, hides and cotton. He said they are currently in the process of ensuring that garments, hides and cotton laboratory gets accreditation. “The aim is to make sure that by the end of next year, the laboratory is accredited,” he stressed. He said the criteria used to provide the accreditation certificate is to have formal work system, accredited work performance, accreditation of work performance of the laboratory employees and methods used in the metrology laboratory should be accepted internationally. The other criteria include an environment of making measurement that should be internationally recognized, and the availability of illustrations that show the whole process of measurement and the results. "When all these are done, then inspectors write a report, and when they find something anomalous, changes are to be made before issuing certificate of accreditation,” he noted. To get international recognition, the metrology laboratory received accreditation certificate by observing international ISO/IEC17025 which include the area of dimensional, temperature, mass and small volume. According to him, when the metrology laboratory is recognized globally, its tests and measurements are also accepted worldwide. Other benefits of using correct measurements is to promote business, give confidence to the service provider as well as protecting consumers against substandard goods. The expectation is to expand the outreach of the metrology laboratory services to reach many places, only that the move is impeded by lack of sufficient equipment. He said the TBS laboratories have obtained modern equipment for testing all goods. Some of the modern equipment used in food laboratory are those used for testing pesticides in food products, testing unwanted minerals in food and for testing remains of chemicals in animal feeds and honey. Eng Maganga said TBS has been leading in the country in receiving and testing many samples. For example, at the food laboratory, they received almost 1,000 samples for testing every month. He said one of the advantages of using metrology laboratory services is the guarantee obtained on the accuracy of the services to be provided in almost all sectors where it is deployed. Some of the obligations of the metrology laboratory is that it is the custodian of the national standards to ensure they comply with international standards.