AS Tanzanians continue mourning Dr John Magufuli, media organisations - Tanzania Media Women Association (Tamwa-Zanzibar) and Zanzibar Development Journalists Association (Wahamaza) have congratulated President Samia Suluhu Hassan on her being sworn in as the first female President of the United Republic of Tanzania. In separate press statements, Tamwa and Wahamaza expressed deep sadness for the loss of Dr Magufuli as they extended warm congratulations to Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan on her new role in the country. "We wish Mama Samia, the first female President in the East African region success in moving the United Republic of Tanzania forward, starting from where Dr Magufuli stopped," Tamwa said in the statement signed by its Director, Dr Mzuri Issa. "We, as journalists look forward to working with the President, including maintaining war on corruption, violations of human rights such as sexual abuse, and unaccountability in support of the country's efforts towards achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs), read part of Wahamaza's statement signed by its Secretary Salma Said. Ms Suluhu Hassan, 61, was sworn in on Friday as the sixth President of Tanzania following the sudden death of President John Magufuli. According to the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan will serve as President for the remaining five-year term that ends in 2025. Mama Samia was Dr Magufuli's running mate when they were first elected in 2015, making her the first female Vice-President in the nation. They were re-elected to a second term in October last year. According to her CV, the new President studied management and public administration before beginning a political career in 2000. Meanwhile, the Zanzibar House of Representatives, led by Speaker Zubeir Ali Maulid has poured tributes to President John Joseph Magufuli, saying the political vacuum due to his untimely death could not be easily filled. Speaker Maulid said in a statement: "A big loss for us. He loved Zanzibar and had many plans to support Isles development strategy. It is unfortunate that death cut short his plans and war against corruption, embezzlement of public funds, and economic crime." He said Dr Magufuli had enabled Tanzania to move a step forward faster in becoming a lower middle-in come economy, improve discipline in public service, improve infrastructure, healthcare and education and hard work and relations with neighbours. "We miss him, but congratulate Ms Samia on taking over and hope she keeps the pace." He added. The House of Representatives from Mfenesini Constituency said: "We have lost a great man of the people, a patriotic leader, and a committed man who loved his people. Definitely under President Samia we have to enhance all the good things brought about by Dr Maguful, including the protection of natural wealth and resolving land disputes and conflicts." Ms Mtumwa Peya - Representative for Bumbwini Constituency said: "Women will remember and miss Dr Magufuli because he helped to create many opportunities for them, including freedom to do petty businesses along road/street sides in all areas. Mama Samia will ensure women continue this." Mr Issa Haji Ussi (Gavu), Representative for Chwaka Constituency mourned Dr Magufuli saying: "He loved and vowed to strengthen the Union between Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar. "It is a fact that his death has come at a time we still need him, but God knows better than we do. I have no doubt with Mama Samia we will move in a similar direction."