AT the age of 32 years, a talented Rehema Migambile is already one of managers at Puma Energy Tanzania following three consecutive promotions in just five years. An ever-smiling and fairly dark, Rehema, who is sharp and focused has become a key person in operations of the Puma Energy Tanzania-a company which has the biggest country’s market share of fuel market, particularly, aviation fuel. The company, which the government has ownership of 50 per cent shares, looks at her as one of the very important people in operating the company, entrusting her to lead jet fuel department as sub-regional aviation commercial manager in charge of two countries; Tanzania and Malawi. The aviation sector is a big source of revenues to the company, contributing over 50 per cent of the company’s earnings. As Tanzania joins the rest of the world to mark the International Women’s Day today, Ms Rehema is one of untold stories of successful young women who managed to quickly climb to top leadership positions in corporations. Narrating her story to the ‘Daily News’ on how she made it, Rehema said for her working with Puma Energy Company was her dream, since she was a Secondary School student when the company was known as BP Company. Since then she lived her dream, hoping that one day it would materialise. Luckily, when she was still studying at the Institute of Finance Management (IFM) as a student of Bachelor of Banking and Finance, she got opportunity to do internship at the Puma Energy Tanzania. That was her golden chance to show her talent and prove that girls are capable. Doing internship was enough for the company to confirm that Rehema was right candidate to join company’s one-year graduate training programme in 2013. She took the training in the company’s finance department for only one month. “In just one month, the company’s General Manager shifted me to sales department after identifying talent and ability in me that I would do best in sales,” Rehema explained. A year later, in 2014, the 15company’s management promoted her to assistant Sales Manager until 2016, when she got another promotion to become Sales Manager for North Regional Sales. She served this position until last year when she was further promoted to her current position as Sub-regional commercial manager for Tanzania and Malawi, where the company supplies jet fuel in a total of 10 airports, out of which 8 in Tanzania and two in Malawi. Aviation companies are big customers, buying aviation fuel in a bulk. “My main duty is to ensure that these corporate customers of jet fuel are well served and choose the Puma Energy as their fuel supplier,” she noted. Now Rehema is a member of company’s senior leadership team which that comprises over 10 members, with only two females. “Having visionary managers who can see capability of woman at workplace is what brought me up to this level,” she said as she appealed to managers in other companies to embrace a culture of spotting talents in women and raise them to the top managerial posts. She further said women who have managed to be at the helm of companies have to ensure that they help their fellow women also to get there. “Let women help other women, I confess that my Human Resources Manager called Loveness Hoyange played a great role in ensuring that I grow to the top,” she revealed. Explaining about her personal efforts for achievement, she said, hard work and being proactive were some of characters which made her got to the top managerial level. Her memorable challenging moment when serving her current post was early last year when many countries implemented travel restrictions due to Covid-19. “That was a time when I got promoted to lead the aviation sales department, it was time when sales were significantly down, so you can Imagine how it troubled me because I was new in a position and I wanted to prove those who promoted me that I have the ability,” she explained. The Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE) also enrolled her to its programme of Female Future initiative, and she was among graduates who received certificates at the 3rd annual leadership conference held last week in Dar es Salaam and graced by the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan. The Vice-President called on various institutions, companies and stakeholders to make deliberate efforts to increase the number of women in senior leadership positions. Ms Samia said a report on Women in Business and Management by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) of 2019 indicates that benefits of gender equality begin to be felt when women hold 30 per cent of the top leadership positions, but 60 per cent of most companies do not meet the goal of having a good gender balance at the top leadership levels. “Most companies do not meet the goal because of various factors such as educational challenges, lack of effective workplace policies and patriarchal culture in companies that hinder women from gaining more opportunities. It is clear that we still have a lot of work to do to achieve these goals,” she said. “The report offered new insights into how gender diversity at the top improves organisational performance in which companies that have adopted about three-quarters of those companies reported a profit increase of between 5 and 20 per cent.” She further argued that most studies have proven that companies with a strong female presence in leadership roles perform better than those led by men thus it is crucial to give women a chance to showcase their talents and abilities. She went on revealing that in recent years many women have shown great ability in leadership especially in the top positions, noting that the development of talents and training has grown to be a catalyst in nurturing and preparing women with professional skills as well as great work ethic to reach senior leadership roles. ATE Executive Director, Dr Aggrey Mlimuka, said the Female Future initiative launched in 2016 is a course designed to prepare women to take up leadership positions in the country’s major corporations. “We develop ladies to become more potential leaders capable of overcoming fear and managing fright when negotiating various issues for their organisations,” he said.