TANZANIA Social Action Fund (TASAF) has reached out to support some 46,77 1 poor households in Arusha Region that are not able to get the basic three meals a day. The household’s members have also been put under a special programme in capacity building in running economic activities, so that in future those households can be self-sufficient and lead good lives. TASAF Arusha Regional Coordinator Mr Mathias Seif said over the weekend here that already some families are going on well in line with TASAF’s directives. The Fund has used 34.3bn/- in the third phase of TASAF Plan that started in July 2015 . Mr Seif noted that beneficiaries to the programme are those that cannot afford three meals a day and costs of education and health. Some of activities in the third phase could not be implemented due to challenges arising from the General Election processes. TASAF is in the final stages to establish other underprivileged households that were not included in the plans. In order to see that many poor households are integrated in the plans, Arusha City Council has been singled out to be the first for beneficiaries to get the grants electronically, though banks and mobile phones. He said that some households that were in TASAF plans have since been removed as they lack respective terms and conditions, meaning that they are now getting enough income to get three meals as well as education and health services from their own sources. The plan that started in 2014 came to an end in December 2019 in some regions, but TASAF will continue with implementation in Arusha, Geita, Mwanza and Simiyu regions, so as to improve lives of the vulnerable. Through the plan, some saving and investment groups have been initiated. Some 14.19bn/- have been issued to implement different projects in Arusha region, including construction of classrooms, teachers’ offices and residential houses, health centres and residential houses for health workers. Citizens have been participating in projects to construct roads, water ponds and canals for irrigation and cattle drinking.