FRESH Flow has received its first container of Tanzanian avocados at the Europe Retail Packing (ERP) in the Netherlands. “We’re going to receive two containers of Hass a week from Tanzania. We’ve partnered with Vegpro Tanzania and Fresh Flow for that. The first batch has good quality and dry matter content,” said Ron Jongejan. Fresh Flow will get sizes 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24 in 4 kg packs. And 26s, 28s, 30s, and 32s will be in 10kg packs. The avocados are all GlobalGAP certified. The current avocado market is good. Prices are stable, and the supply’s reasonable. The market should be good in the coming months. Jongejan is expecting the first container of Fuerte-avocados to arrive in ten weeks’ time. This new company has moved to 550 ABC Westland 550 in Poeldijk. There, its logistics partner, ERP, can ripen and package the product for them. According to the Avocado Catalogue 2020 report, avocado exports jumped to 9,000 tonnes in 2019 from 1,877 tonnes in 2014. In Tanzania, the prominent avocado producing areas are in the regions of Mbeya, Njombe, Songwe and Iringa in the southwest, as well as in Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Tanga, Kigoma and Kagera and Morogoro. The global avocado market is expected to grow at a Compound annual growth rate of 5.72 per cent to reach a total market size of 17.905 billion US dollars by 2025, increasing from 12.824 billion US dollars in 2019. These bright green fruits are often called alligator pears or the butter fruit and in recent years are extensively used as ready to go ingredients in all sorts of dishes. With high nutritional value in terms of low sugar content and high fiber content avocados are embraced by the majority of the population in the developed economies. Today, a major component of a healthy lifestyle includes the intake of nutritious foods which can help to prevent diseases. The vitamins, healthy fats, and minerals in avocados help to prevent diseases such as cancer, arthritis, inflammation, and even depression. Avocado is considered an ideal food for teenagers on account of its rich food content and composition as a healthy snack and with the growing health awareness among the young population its popularity is expected to further grow among the millennial population in the coming years. The growing working population in various parts of the world is expected to drive the growth of the market during the forecast period.