THE government has said it will continue pushing the international community to lift sanctions imposed on Burundi as part of the efforts to remove trade barriers. The move aims at helping the central African nation and a member of the East African Community (EAC) attain economic development for the prosperity of Burundi people. The commitment was expressed by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Ambassador Brig Gen Wilbert Ibuge while officiating at the opening of the Joint Permanent Commission (JPC) of Permanent Secretaries and their deputies. The three-day meeting that kicked off on Wednesday is also attended by the team of experts from the two countries. Ambassador Ibuge said the economic sanctions and travel ban imposed to some Burundian leaders by the European Union (EU), to a large extent, affects the social development of Burundi people. The EU had in 2015 sanctioned Burundi over the allegations on violating democracy, for which, among others, the latter was subjected to the denial of development aid while some of the government officials were banned from entering the EU member countries. “Tanzania sides with Burundi to ensure all the sanctions are lifted,” he insisted. According to the PS, Tanzania would also continue to support Burundi on its request of joining the Southern African Development Community (SADC), as it was agreed by President John Magufuli and his Burundian counterpart Evarist Ndayishimiye during their meeting in Kigoma region in September last year. “The JPC is also scheduled to discuss and revisit the instructions issued by Heads of State last year for better implementation and that everything has to go as planned,” he said. For his part, the Burundian Permanent Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Isidori Nyandwi said close cooperation between his country and Tanzania has helped to spur economic development of the two countries. “Despite the number of challenges that Burundi is facing, including the economic sanctions, our country is optimistic that the resolutions to be reached in this meeting will bring a positive impact, especially on building the economy,” he said.