AS the Nation continues to mourn the fallen Head of State, Dr John Magufuli, religious, traditional leaders, elders and residents in Rukwa Region have congratulated Mama Samia Suluhu Hassan ,61, for being sworn in as the first female President of the United Republic of Tanzania. Equally, they on different occasions and locations expressed deep sadness for the untimely loss of Dr Magufuli and extended warm congratulations to Mama Samia for her role as the new president. Addressing hundreds of citizens at Nelson Mandela area here in the municipality late on Saturday, the Chairman of Rukwa Regional Peace Committee (RRPC), Rev Bishop Ambele Mwaipopo expressed great sorrow for the sudden demise of Dr Magufuli. "We religious leaders, despite our deep sadness, are very optimistic that Mama Samia will make it by starting from where Dr Mafufuli stopped, including war on corruption and unaccountability in public services. We are looking forward to working with her (President) for the betterment of our nation" explained Rev Bishop Mwaipopo. Rev Mwaipopo who is from Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) Diocese of Tanganyika in Rukwa and Katavi made such remarks during a special prayer led by him as RRPC chairman. The clergy also appealed to Tanzanians to maintain peace and tranquility during this time when the nation mourns the sudden demise of Dr Magufuli. Mama Samia was sworn-in on Friday as the sixth President of the United Republic of Tanzania following the sudden death of Dr Magufuli. As per the country’s constitution, Ms Samia will serve as President for the remainder of the 2020-2025 presidential term. President Magufuli passed away on March 17, 2021 at around 6:00pm at Mzena Hospital in Dar es Salaam where he was hospitalised after suffering from chronic atrial fibrillation, an illness he fought for more than a decade. Meanwhile, traditional chiefs led by their chairman, Chief Katata poured tributes to the fallen Head of State, saying the nation has lost a patriotic statesman, a great man of the people, as well as a committed and hardworking leader who loved his people most. “Truly his untimely death has come at a time when we still need him most, but we are very optimistic that Mama Samia will move on in a similar manner. Though we will greatly miss Dr Magufuli, we honestly congratulate Mama Samia, I'm sure she will keep the pace during her term in office, we all hope so" noted Chief of Ulungu, Mtono the V. Similar sentiments were also echoed by Chief of Nkasi, Malema Sinyangwe. On his part, chairman of elders in Rukwa Region, veteran politician Dr Chrisant Mzindakaya described Dr Magufuli as a patriot who enabled Tanzania to move a step forward faster in becoming a lower middle income economy. "During his life time in office, Dr Magufuli restored discipline and accountability in public service, improved infrastructure, healthcare facilities and education," added Dr Mzindakaya. Equally, a cross section of citizens in Rukwa Region interviewed separately by the "Daily News" today lauded President Magufuli for his anti-corruption stances and distinct dislike for wasting money. "We mourn the departed President Dr Magufuli as a great and practical leader who was not shy to speak out his mind and never minced his words" said Ms Johari Swedi from Nkasi District.