WORLD leaders have continued to mourn the sudden death of Tanzania’s fifth President Dr John Magufuli, with the latest condolences coming from President Xi Jinping of China. The Chinese President, Xi, sent a message of condolences to new Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday, as Tanzanians continued to pay their last respects to the fallen leader in Zanzibar. Xi expressed deep condolences and extended sincere sympathies to the Tanzanian government and people as well as President Magufuli's relatives. “On behalf of the Chinese Government and People and in my own name, I hereby extend my heartfelt condolences to the deceased and convey sincere sympathy to the Tanzanian Government and People and his family.” “Magufuli is a prominent leader of Tanzania who made outstanding achievements by leading the Tanzanian people to resolutely safeguard national sovereignty against interference and explore a development path that suits Tanzania's conditions,” he added. President Xi lauded the late President Magufuli as an outstanding leader, who made positive contributions to the development of China-Tanzania and China-Africa friendly cooperation. “The passing of Dr Magufuli is a great loss for the Tanzanian people and China lost a sincere friend as well,” President Xi said. Noting that China cherishes the profound traditional friendship between China and Tanzania, Xi said that China is willing to work with the Tanzanian side to deepen their comprehensive cooperative partnership, so as to bring more benefits to both countries and their peoples. Last Thursday, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian eulogized Dr Magufuli, saying he attached great importance to the development of relations with China and made important contributions to the promotion of China-Tanzania cooperation in various fields. Zhao lauded Magufuli for firmly defending national sovereignty, opposing foreign interference and leading the Tanzanian people to actively promote the country's economic and social development. He added that China cherished the profound traditional friendship between the two countries, and the Chinese people will stand firmly with the Tanzanian people at this moment of grief. Tanzania’s iconic leader Dr Magufuli passed away on March 17, this year due to heart disease, aged 61.