VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has conveyed a message by President John Magufuli, saying the government was committed and on track to fulfilling all pledges made during the last October General Election. “I would like to convey greetings from the President, the President is greeting and is very grateful to you for the good work in October last year when you re-elected the CCM government into power, you did the noble thing because now we’re going to fulfill what we pledged in our election manifesto,” Mama told Tanga residents during the first day of her working tour in the region. Delivering President Magufuli’s message to Tanzanians, Ms Samia added: “We’re safe, let’s work hard and march on safely, let’s build love and unity between Tanzanians so that our nation can prosper even further.” “He is calling on Tanga residents to explore opportunities available in the sisal plantation for individual and national development and that the government would continue to throw full weight on the sector." Mama Samia, while lauding the progressive industrial investments in the country, urged Tanzanians to remain focused on the task of nation building and ignore any distractions that could take them off the track. She insisted on unity, saying Tanzanians needed to come together more than ever before in advancing their socio-economic goals for the well-being of the people and the resilience of the nation. The VP said the country’s recent successes may not bode well with some outsiders and pleaded with wananchi to remain patriotic and vigilant against ill-wishers. Accompanied by some ministers and other government executives, Ms Samia assured that the government would maintain its focus on bringing development in Tanga and all other parts of the country. “We shall never let you down, the government is there for you and it shall maintain the working speed that was demonstrated during the first five years of the administration of the fifth phase,” she said. The vice-president emphasised on the need for everyone in the country to keep working hard and focus on development issues, instead of paying attention to rumour-peddlers, since it has no value for the country’s development. “As a country, we must work together, be united and build our nation. Most of the rumours that are circulating have come from outside the country. I ask you to ignore them,” she said. Her statement comes just three days after the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa asked Tanzanians to ignore the widely circulating rumours involving the health status of President Magufuli, insisting that the Head of State is well and he is going about his activities. Premier Majaliwa made the statement after attending Friday prayers in the Njombe Region where he was on a working tour. “President Magufuli is in good health and he is going about his duties as usual while we, his aides, are going around the country serving wananchi. I spoke to him today (Friday) and he asked me to convey his greetings to you” he explained. He said Tanzanians must continue to maintain unity, including consolidating peace and ignore rumours and hate speech peddled by individuals who do not wish the country well, especially on the health of President Magufuli. “Let’s continue to hold prayers and listen to sermons that embrace peace and tranquility,” he said.