THE national cricket team coach, Kenyan Steve Tikolo has said that uncertainty looming the staging of ICC major international assignments because of Coronavirus pandemic may psychologically affect players. This is because they set their mind for the competition that will unexpectedly be cancelled at the eleventh hours. Tikolo, with a vast World Cup experience while representing Kenya as a player, is currently supervising the training of the national team players who are preparing for among other events, Sub-Regional World Cup Qualifiers B scheduled for South Africa in April, this year. However, unconfirmed reports have it that the event, expected to take place next month may now be subjected to second time cancelation because of a worse Coronavirus situation that is ravaging the World. “It is affecting the players and may shift their focus on something else knowing that it will not be happening," said Tikolo. However, he said that he continues preparing the players for their physical match fitness and their positive participation in domestic tournaments. "We train everyday at Leaders Club for match fitness because we do not want to relax because of Coronavirus wave, what is more important is to take precautions against the virus.” “We get prepared but it is almost a year now we move on without an international tournament,” said Tikolo. South Africa is one of the countries which have heavily been hit by the wave of Coronavirus and this could be the reason behind the double cancellation. ICC awarded South Africa and Nigeria the rights to host the African region qualification pathway events towards 2022 T20 World Cup finals in Australia. Tanzania is in Group B alongside Botswana, Cameroon, Mozambique, Sierra Leone and St, Helena while Group A teams that are also supposed to travel to South Africa are Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Rwanda, Seychelles, Swaziland and Uganda. To prepare for the South African qualifiers, the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) recently organized T20 Super Cup that will climax today at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club.