MINISTRY of Communication and Information Technology has vowed to deal with cyber related crimes in the country through various ways, including searching for people who spread rumours and misleading information through social media. Minister for Communication and Information Technology, Dr Faustine Ndugulile said that they have started working on online fraud by educating the public on proper use of online services. Dr Ndugulile was briefing journalists on achievements of his ministry in 100 days since it was formed in December last year. He said it was formed strategically to allow the country cope with changes in the Communication and Information Technology sector. He said Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has started providing education on how people can make verification of their registered phone numbers in order to identify the numbers which have been registered through their IDs without their knowledge. “The verification is very simple, because a subscriber is only required to dial *106# to see the numbers which have been registered through their national identification number and report to respective authorities in case there is any additional numbers which they have not registered,” he said. He said that the ministry has also come up with a new system of dealing with online frauds, including deception messages sent through mobile phones with the aim of stealing money from the respective subscriber. “We have come up with a new system in which any subscriber who will receive such message is required to forward it together with the sender’s number to 15040, where it will be worked on by respective authorities,” he said. Dr Ndugulile noted that process is underway to search for those who spread rumours and misleading information through social media and those who provide false information during SIM card registration. He further noted that the ministry was also working on coming up with a special system which will monitor mobile phone agents who make registration to abide by rules and procedures. He noted that his ministry wants to focus more on cybercrime because it is likely to bring adverse impacts in the future. “We want to direct more efforts on this area because it is likely to cause more problems in the future ... we have witnessed a decline in other crimes while cybercrime is on the rise,” Dr Ndugulile noted. Dr Ndugulile, however, said that in 100 days of the existence of the ministry, it has managed to bring major improvements in the sector, including introduction of indicative prices for bundle charges for all telecommunication operators. “Before these 100 days’ telecom operators were free to set their own charges ... data charges were between 1/- to more than 50/- but now the mobile phone companies are required to observe the indicative price and are also restricted to change the bundles before three months,” he said. He further said that his ministry has also been tasked with managing the national fibre- optic backbone by ensuring that it covers 80 per cent of the country by 2025 from the current 45 per cent and increase internet use from 43 per cent to 80 per cent. Dr Ndugulile added that in addition to expansion of the communication systems, people should also be empowered to use the services by educating them and ensuring that ICT devices are available in the country at affordable prices. He noted that the government through TCRA has embarked on a process to establish a mobile phone manufacturing company to ensure that people have access to smart phones at affordable prices.