FORMER President John Magufuli will be laid to rest on Thursday (March 25) in his hometown of Chato, Geita Region, President Samia Suluhu Hassan announced yesterday. Besides the burial, the residents of four regions namely Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Mwanza and Geita will get an opportunity to bid farewell to their iconic leader. President Samia made the announcement right after being sworn in as President of the United Republic of Tanzania at Magogoni State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday. According to the Head of the State, Dr Magufuli passed away on March 17, 2021 at about 6pm at Mzena Hospital in Dar es Salaam where he was hospitalised after suffering from chronic atrial fibrillation, a condition he had fought for more than a decade. She pointed out that the former President had first been briefly admitted to Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) in Dar es Salaam on March 6. Mama Samia revealed that the condition of Dr Magufuli had improved and was discharged on March 7, but on March 14 he was rushed to hospital again after feeling unwell. He finally succumbed to the illness. In compliance with the National Leaders Funeral Act, the President announced 21 days of national mourning, reiterating that all national flags would fly at half-mast. “Tanzanians will have an opportunity to pay their last respects for five days from Saturday to Wednesday in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Mwanza and Chato in Geita Region, whereby Tanzanians are going to have an opportunity to pay their last respects before he is laid to rest on Thursday,” said Mama Samia. She said today his body would be taken to St Peter’s Church from Lugalo Hospital for requiem mass and later taken to Uhuru Stadium. “Saturday (today) will be a day for the leaders to pay their last respects and the residents of Dar es Salaam will bid farewell to Dr Magufuli on Sunday. On Sunday (tomorrow), his body will be transported to Dodoma and the residents of the region will get a chance to say goodbye on Monday (March 22) from 9am. This day will be a public holiday,” she noted. She pointed out that Tuesday would be a time for the residents of Mwanza and on Wednesday the body of former President Magufuli would land in Chato, where family members and the residents of Chato, would pay their last respects to their loved one. Requiem mass will be celebrated at Chato Parish Church and later Dr Magufuli will be laid to rest. Condolence books will be open at Kareem Jee Hall (Dar es Salaam), Nyerere Square (Dodoma), at Foreign Affairs offices in Dar es Salaam and at all Tanzanian embassies and high commissions overseas. As for Chato, the book will be available to Chato District Commissioner’s offices in Zanzibar at the former House of Representatives’ building and all district and regional offices countrywide. The President pledged to continue being there for the family of Dr Magufuli, saying she was praying to God to give them strength to endure their deep pain. In another development, Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Abubakar Kunenge identified the routes of which the motorcade carrying the body of Dr Magufuli will move from St Peter’s Church in Oysterbay-Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road-Sokoine Drive-Railway Station roundabout-Kilwa Road. Mr Kunenge disclosed that the residents of Dar es Salaam who could not make it to Uhuru Stadium could stand along the roads and pay their last respects. “The residents of Dar es Salaam have two days to pay their last respects as from tomorrow (today) 7am. People from neighbouring regions can come to Dar es Salaam to bid farewell to their beloved leader today and tomorrow,” noted the RC.