AS majority of students wish to secure salaried employment immediately after completing their studies, to Nathan Msuya (21), a Performing and Visual Arts student at the Bagamoyo Arts and Cultural Institute (Tasuba) in the Coast region, this was not a priority. Born on 17 August 1999 in Same District, Kilimanjaro region, Msuya developed an interest in engaging in self-employment since his secondary school studies at Usangi Secondary School. In exams, he excelled and proceeded to join Bihawana Secondary School in Dodoma for Advanced Secondary education pursuing science studies and majoring in Chemistry, Biology and Agriculture (CBA) combination, but despite scoring well, he still opted to join Arts College for him to pursue his dreams. “I have never had a dream to be employed, and this is coming true after realising my talent in drawing and painting. I have been doing this since I was in secondary school,” he narrates to the ‘Daily News’. However, the decision to throw all his efforts in the art of drawing landed him in a dispute with his parents, who according to him wanted their son to become a medical doctor. “To their surprise, I made my personal decision and decided to apply to this College, where I’m taking Ordinary Diploma in Performing and Visual Arts, instead of joining the health and allied science universities, where I would have taken health courses,” he pointed out. Challenges toward following his dreams Following the decisions to follow his dreams, Msuya did not appear good to his family members, as always, he was asked by his parents to change his mindset and join university for higher education studies. But he is still optimistic that one day, his family and close friends will understand the importance of following his dreams and capitalising on them. “Since I opted to pursue my dreams, most of the time I have to pay the bills on my own, my parents are a bit disappointed with what I’m doing right now, I know they are capable of paying my accommodations on time,” he says. He, is also receiving criticism from his secondary school classmates wondering why he sacrificed science where he was performing well in class and opted for arts. Adding, “But I’m sure one day, my efforts and dedication will pay off, he says thanking the college for supporting him and his colleagues with enough working space for practice”. Role of the college on supporting his talent Being at the college, Msuya has learnt a lot and according to him, it has sharpened his skills in comparison to the past six months. “I must thank the college that has competent and supportive instructors who are teaching us well. Despite having a talent for drawing, my skills have continued to be improved at the college,” he added. He is optimistic that by the end of his studies, he will be competent enough to stand on his own, run the business as well as creating employment opportunities for others. In a bid to create a sustainable market for artists’ work, Msuya urges the government to put in place arrangements that would see establishment of special museums to showcase their work. This will provide us with the income based on collections to be charged at the gate, at the same time, the government will be getting its revenue out of the business,” he said. Speaking on the role of the college in supporting the talents of students, the Tasuba Principal Dr Herbert Makoye said they are taking all the efforts to brush, maintain and set proper guidelines for all students studying at the college. “Apart from lectures and practical training at the college, students are also exposed to artists in the field, for them to be able to get knowledge and experience on how they can survive in the industry upon accomplishment of their studies,” he said. Being an institution under supervision of the ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Tasuba is serving a mission of conducting training, research and consultancy services in arts and culture and producing high quality professional artists, arts managers, cultural workers as well as producing arts products, services and multimedia productions. Speaking recently during his visit to the college the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Mr Innocent Bashungwa assured of the government’s commitment of continuing improving Tasuba for it to match with the technological needs as well as recruiting more students. More so, he challenged the management of Tasuba to come up with projects and ideas that would expand the market for the trainees and generate income for the college and the artists. He said, being a public institution, Tasuba has a core role of training Tanzanian youths who have passion for venturing in artistic and cultural activities, since there is a great potential in the sector. “Apart from generating income, the activities also promote Tanzanian culture through entertainment, so let’s make better use of the college by coming up with ideas and programmes that would benefit the country, college and artists,” said the minister. Mr Bashungwa who was accompanied by his deputy Mr Abdallah Ulega and the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary Dr Hassan Abbasi was of the view that the college should expand its scope to the extent of attracting even foreign students. According to him, this will make Tanzanian culture, music and artistic work more popular where those in the industry will also benefit from their work. “The ministry is fully determined to improve the college for it to continue training youths and those who are passionate of venturing in this field,” he insisted. In response to that, Dr Makoye said the college plans to introduce more programmes that meet the current and future need in the market. “Already we have submitted the proposals to the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE) on the new programmes that we are looking forward to introducing, they have responded and right now we are working on the recommendations from the council,” he said. According to him, some of the new programmes will be on Culture Heritage and Tourism as well as Arts Management and Marketing. He also asked for close support from culture officers in all councils across the country to identify the need and communicate with the college for implementation.