TO enhance security and woo other investors in the mining sector, Geita Gold Mining Limited (GGML) has launched a security system that involves the communities surrounding it making free calls and reporting any crime to the government and company. Launching the system in Geita region, Geita District Commissioner Fadhili Juma said any information provided would be treated as confidential for the security of the residents, investor and their property. “During this era of communication technology, it is essential to address various challenges facing the community including crime and sabotage of various infrastructures like electricity or water pipes which cost the government a lot of money that we work as a team. “In this digital system, people surrounding the mining area will be able to call 0800 750 145 free of charge when they detect any criminal activities including conspiracy, damage to company property, corrupt practices from some employees or contractors working with the company of GGML, security measures including unsafe driving, and all other company-related information as well as for the safety and security of community members. “I commend GGML Company for coming up with this innovation as its goal in helping the government have access various criminal information. The role of the government is to create the best possible environment to protect the investor so that he can carry out his activities safely and effectively, providing employment and contribute in the national income through various taxes and levies, ” he said. Commenting on the system, GGML Security Senior Manager Suleiman Machira said it was thought of as a result of the company and the residents realising the importance of good co-existence and strengthening relations so that they all benefit from the mine’s presence in the area. “We have had good citizens who have grown up and ready to provide various information that would help the company, but fail to provide information due to the lack of a simple and inexpensive reporting system,” said Machira. Mr Machira noted that when an investor conducts his business safely without being harmed, it means he will be able to contribute a lot in economic output of Geita region and Tanzania in general will benefit. Over the past 20 years, GGML has funded various projects worth more than 30bn/- in a period of 3 years in Geita region.