SIMBA Sports Club have said that they are used to play behind closed door in away matches. CAF has directed to have no one attending their Tuesday’s crucial match against Sudanese Al-Merrikh. The club’s information officer, Haji Manara said yesterday that they feel sorry for the locked doors for fans but have nothing rather than respecting CAF’s decision. “ Simba have a big bond with their fans who travel from far away to cheer for the team in such an important home match, but this time we feel sorry for that,” said Manara. CAF also directed Simba to have just a half of 60,000 capacity of Mkapa Stadium when they beat African champions, Al-Ahly of Egypt in their earlier CAF Champions League’s group match. Manara said that though it is the first time for Simba to play without fans at home, the players have experienced that situation in their CAF Champions League matches held in several countries, among others, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Zimbabwe and Khartoum (Sudan). Simba, who will replay Al-Merrikh in a return leg tie of Group A’s CAF Champions League, have been enjoying support from their supporters in home matches but this time around it will be different. Simba were expecting to have a full back up of home supporters, but this time will definitely be a blow for the Mainland champions after the Confederation of African Football (CAF) suspended fans, who also were very supportive when Simba chocked the African football after a 1-0 home victory over African champions, AlAhly. The decision of CAF to suspend fans is linked with measures to stop the spreading of Coronavirus pandemic that have hit many countries, leading to the imposition of travel ban. In most parts of the Europe and other continents, football matches remain unattended by fans in the wake of Covid-19 scare. CAF, according to Manara, gave that restriction through the country’s governing football body, TFF. “Only the officials and a few individuals will be allowed into the stadium for the game. All we can ask from our supporters is to pray for us from home and we will not disappoint them.” The official has further stated it will not be a problem to play in an empty stadium since the players have the needed experience to perform. “This will be a silent battle from our players just the way a lion does when it is on a hunting mission,” Manara continued. “It does not matter whether there will be fans or not because the players know how to handle the situation owing to their experience. We will give our best and I am hopeful we will get a positive outcome.” Manara further insisted on what the team is aiming at achieving in the competition. “This year, Simba will do great things that will ensure we get the respect we deserve as a club. “We have set a target of reaching the semi-final of the competition and we will do everything to achieve the objective.” Simba will miss the services of defender Pascal Wawa and midfielder Taddeo Lwanga due to suspension. The Ivorian defender has formed a strong partnership in the Simba backline with Kenyan Joash Onyango and from three matches played, the Msimbazi giants are yet to concede a goal, while Lwanga has been the key in the midfield, combining well with Clatous Chama, Larry Bwalya and Luis Miquissone.