THE government is determined to restore Tanga’s economic status of the past, by implementing strategic development projects in the region and attracting more investments. The assurance was issued by Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan when addressing the citizens in Korogwe District, Tanga region, shortly after laying a foundation stone for the construction of a Vocational Training College. Mama Samia is on a working tour of the north region, where she is scheduled to inaugurate and inspect a number of development projects, as well as launching the investment guide for Tanga Region. “The government is aware of challenges facing residents in this region and we have been releasing budgets for development projects implemented in Tanga,” she said. Ms Samia mentioned some of the challenges as unreliable and insufficient supply of water and poor infrastructures that hinder movement of people, goods and services. The vice-president commended Tanga regional administration for practically implementing the industrialisation policy, especially encouraging investors into the region, a move that would assure creation of employments, value addition of crops as well as increase revenue collections. She made the remarks after launching a food processing factory and a 20bn/- soft drinks factory in the region, where she also asked the regional government to continue providing conducive environment for investors. Upon completion, the food processing factory is expected to create over 600 employments and assure a market for crops being grown in the villages surrounding the plant. Earlier on the day, the VP laid a foundation stone for construction of the administration block for Handeni District Council at the Mkata Township, insisting that the government is determined to bring services closer to the people. “I’m so impressed that you are doing well with the implementation of development projects and that you are using well all the funds that have been disbursed by the government,” she said. Eelier, Tanga Regional Commissioner Mr Martine Shigella told the Vice-President that the region was doing well in implementing development projects, asking for delivery of pledges on the improvement of social services. He said the government is planning to construct a road linking Tanga city to Bagamoyo District in Coast Region via Pangani District, which upon completion would facilitate movement of people and commodities as well as promote tourist attractions available in the region. For his part, the Minister for Water Jumaa Aweso reiterated the government's commitment to address shortage of water across Tanga Region; while the Minister of State Vice-President’s Office Union and Environment Ummy Mwalimu, noted that her docket would never be a barrier for investors. “The ministry through the National Environmental Management Council (Nemc) would never be an obstacle in the investment sector especially in the construction of industries,” Ms Mwalimu said. The minister also urged all local government councils to allocate areas for construction of industries and factories to avoid complaints on environmental pollution especially to the surrounding communities. For his part, the Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade Exaud Kigahe said the ministry would continue supporting investors for them to set up factories that would support the government's industrialisation strategy.