THE Court of Appeal has confirmed the death sentence imposed on two people, Geoffrey Kitundu and Michael Joseph, for killing a watchman during a robbery attempt at Cocacola Depot, Mtawala area in Morogoro District in August 2013. Justices Rehema Mkuye, Barke Sahel and Ignas Kitusi ruled against Kitundu and Joseph, the appellants, after dismissing their appeal they lodged to challenge the findings of the High Court, which had convicted them of murder for killing Elisha Paul. “(…..) We are satisfied that the prosecution proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against both appellants. In the event, we find the appeal to be devoid of merit and we hereby dismiss them in their entirety,” they declared. During hearing of the appeal, the counsel for the appellants had complained, among others, that the case against his clients was not proved beyond reasonable doubt and that they were properly identified as being the killers. In their judgment delivered recently, the justices of the appeals court agreed the case against the appellants was proved to the required standard on the basis of cautioned statement; discovery of the gun with the facilitation of Joseph and both appellants' conduct of telling lies in court. They held that the visual identification evidence was watertight, taking into consideration the testimony of other security guard, who observed Kitundu lying down in agony, while other thugs were attacking the deceased. At that time, they noted, the other security guard, who was the first prosecution witness, hid himself in a room which was at distance of about three paces from the place where Kitundu was lying in agony and the deceased being attacked. The justices also pointed out that there was sufficient light which the security guard described as a day light illuminating from two bulbs of about 150 watts each lighting the gate area and that he knew the accused before as he once worked with him in the same security company. On the complaint that Kitundu’s cautioned statement was not obtained voluntarily for being recorded while he was not in good health, the justices pointed out that they do not have any reason to fault the trial judge's finding on this. It is on the record that the trial court conducted trial within trial to ascertain voluntariness of the accused and the judge was satisfied that the cautioned statement was taken voluntarily as Kitundu was in good health when it was recorded. “At any rate, in his statement he gave such a detailed narration incriminating both appellants. We think such details could only come from a person who was involved in the commission of the offence,” they said. In particular, the justices said, Kitundu explained to have been shot by a gun at his upper left leg while at the scene of crime and that when he was taken in the police vehicle, he found Joseph therein together with the shotgun they had stolen from the scene of crime. They also found that there was sufficient evidence to mount a conviction against Joseph, noting availability of evidence that he facilitated the recovery of the gun, which was stolen at the scene of crime and he led the police to the place or house he had dropped Kitundu in the previous night. “Apart from that, there was evidence of Kitundu's cautioned statement in which (he) not only incriminated himself but also mentioned the other people, Joseph inclusive, for having plotted to steal at Cocacola Depot,” the justices said. On August 31, 2013, the appellants together with other persons who were not apprehended invaded the Cocacola Company Warehouse located at Mtawala area within Morogoro in an attempt to commit a crime. Upon entering into the said premises, they attacked the security guards who were manning the place using crude weapons including machetes and iron bars upon which one of the security guards was severely injured and died at the scene of crime while the other fell unconscious and later survived. It was the case for the prosecution that during the attack one of the security guards who was armed with a short gun managed to shoot one of the thugs, Kitundu, and injuring him on the upper thigh. Thereafter, the thugs fled with the gun. They also took the injured one and presented him at the home of one Jefta Jared who, upon seeing Kitundu’s wound requested him to go to hospital but he refused. This led Jefta to be suspicious and reported the matter to the police which precipitated to the arrest of both appellants.