AS Tanzania joins other countries to mark the International Women's Day (IWD) today, it is increasingly proving that women are building a future that is sustainable, peaceful, inclusive and equitable. Women of the world deserve an equal future free from stigma, stereotypes and violence; a future that’s sustainable, peaceful, with equal rights and opportunities for all. To get there, the world needs women at every table where decisions are being made. Tanzania is doing just that with several women occupying top posts. Zanzibar Chief Secretary and Secretary of the Revolutionary Council Eng Zena Ahmed Said is truly a living testimony of the Kiswahili saying: “Maneno huumba” -- literally translated as “Words create.” During her stint with Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS), she was honoured to serve as secretary of the workers’ council. And, in her appreciation message, the youthful and first female Chief Secretary in the history of Zanzibar unveiled her dreams, which have almost come true. “It just came as a funny joke; I told my co-workers -- this is the beginning of my journey to become Permanent Secretary, Chief Secretary and Secretary-General of the United Nations,” Eng Zena recalls, insisting that she was merely mocking, “I had never been serious about it.” Although she never mentioned the Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) in her prophesy, the mother of three -- two girls and a son -- has already served as Tanga Regional Administrative Secretary, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy and now Chief Secretary. She has remained with one post -- UN Secretary-General. And why not—the sky is the limit. Eng Zena, wife to one of Tanzania Revenue Authority’s (TRA) Senior Officers, Mr Hamidu Athumani Majallah, is the last but one in a family of 12 -- seven boys and five girls. “I was almost the last born although I’m among girls,” she says. Her late parents, who originated from Pemba, relocated to Tanga in the 1960s before settling in Dar es Salaam in 1973. The 50-year-old engineer attended Ubungo National Housing Primary School from 1979 to 1985. She joined Jangwani Secondary School in 1986 and completed her Form IV in 1989, before returning to the same school for advanced secondary education, graduating in 1992. For her higher education, the underground gender activist, crossed borders. She graduated with Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering from Istanbul-based Bogazigi University in Turkey in 1999. At Tanroads, Eng Zena received an opportunity to pursue Master's Degree in Public Procurement Management at Turin University in Italy and graduated in 2010. Just last year, she graduated with post graduate diploma in economic diplomacy (executive) from Kurasini-based Centre for Foreign Relations in Dar es Salaam. With the exception of her latest post-graduate diploma, Eng, Zena seems to have snubbed domestically provided higher education. Guess why! “It doesn’t imply that I abhor domestic education -- No,” Chief Secretary Zena insinuates, confessing though: “It might sound funny but it’s the fact…I refused to join the University of Dar es Salaam out of rumours.” Yes, she had excelled in her Form VI examinations, qualifying for a direct entry to the country’s most prestigious university. But, she vowed never to set foot on the Hill because, “There were rumours circulating that it was impossible for a girl student to graduate without surrendering herself to her lecturers.” Fortunately, the incident in her teenage, was not without a lesson, which Eng Zena applies even today in executing her duties. “… out of that episode, I learnt one big lesson -- never ever decide on unconfirmed information,” says Eng Zena. “Even in this office, I receive a lot of rumours and information but I never decide unless I have sufficient evidences.” Eng Zena landed her first job in 2000 with COWI Tanzania, a Consulting Engineering firm, which was working on the 43- KM road project from Tegeta in Dar es Salaam to Bagamoyo. “I was hired as works supervisor, overseeing bridges, culverts and trenches,” she recalls. After a two-year stint with the private firm, she joined Tanroads Coast Regional Office under a contract basis. “But I stayed for only four months before securing a full-time job with Tanroads, headquarters, in November 2002. There was an interview and I remember only two of us sailed through.” She took a two-year unpaid sabbatical leave in 2006 to work with the World Bank office in Dar es Salaam before returning for her progressive promotions. In 2016, President John Magufuli appointed Eng Zena as Tanga Regional Administrative Secretary, a post she served until January 2020 when her new promotion to Permanent Secretary in the Energy ministry came knocking. She served the post for hardly a year before Zanzibar President Hussein Mwinyi picked her to become the chief of public service in the islands. A member to Tanzania’s club of iron ladies, Eng Zena hates the misconception that every promotion of a woman is a product of either nepotism or a sexual reward. “It harms and offends us …” she complains, advising fellow ladies however to remain firm and prove their competence through exemplary performance. But, has the new appointment changed Eng Zena’s social life? “No! Literally, nothing has changed. I am naturally not an outing person…my routines have always been from home to office and back home,” she explains, adding: “Yes, I might be wearing a heavier crown now but nothing has changed in my work and social lives.” Eng Zena’s day starts early in the morning, but it’s highly flexible. “Mine is not a static routine because it depends on the schedule of the president. We are still in the formative stages…so we have many meetings and guests.” And, how does she afford to allocate her time to office, children and husband? “There is nothing difficult because that is the life style I have always been leading; sometimes staying late hours in office. I never leave unattended files on my table and that has been my way of life since I was a civil servant at the lower level.” The chief overseer of public servants, under the tutelage of Dr Mwinyi, who has demonstrated his zeal and determination in curbing cruelty to women and children, foresees gender and child violence free Zanzibar. “Under Dr Mwinyi, the future is bright but to win this grand fight, we need the support of all…we already have special court for sexual offences but that alone will not help if wananchi remain reluctant to testify in courts,” she says, describing sexual abuses as, “grave sins, which we cannot afford to condone.” She bravely accepts the heavy responsibility to accomplish President Mwinyi’s promise of the “pleasant future,” for Zanzibaris, saying: “As the chief secretary, I’m duty bound to ensure all the promises are delivered…the responsibilities are heavy but bearable. Through enforcement of accountability, work discipline and competency we will accomplish all the projects, which we believe will transform Zanzibar socially and economically.”