YOUNG Africans have confirmed that they will again miss the services of Said Ntibazonkiza during their crucial match against Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga tomorrow. Ntibazonkiza has been out of action for an extended period of time due to injury and his last game for Yanga before he succumbed to the injury was against Tanzania Prisons at Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga of which, he scored an equalising goal. “Ntibazonkiza will not be part of the squad to face Coastal Union because he is yet to be 100 per cent fit to be on the pitch,” said the club’s Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli. He added that defender Dickson Job, who was signed during the mini transfer window and could not play any match due to injury, is now ready to fight for the club. Meanwhile, Yanga have requested their stakeholders and fans to come forward and assist them in renovating the club’s hostels located at Jangwani Street in Dar es Salaam. Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam on Monday, Chairman of the club Mshindo Msolla said the reason behind refurbishment of the hostels is to minimise accommodation expenditure they incur. “We are exposed to big accommodation expenses by renting hotels for our junior sides, while we have our own hostels which can easily accommodate them without incurring costs. “As a club, we have four teams which are Under-17, Under-20, Yanga Princes and the senior team but for now, we need to upgrade the hostels so that it can accommodate the three teams excluding the senior side, which is camping in the outskirts of the city (Kigamboni). “Because this is the people’s club, we want them to fully participate in this exercise and make sure that all the 30 rooms have the desirable qualities to accommodate targeted players,” said him. According to him, the maximum amount required to renovate one room is 6m/- hence called on different groups of Yanga fans across the country to embrace this exercise wholeheartedly. “One exemplary room which has been fully renovated for 6m/- is ready and we want the rest of the rooms to have the same qualities, so that the place can be conducive to players,” Msolla said. Among the features seen from one of the upgraded self-contained rooms include two bedrooms, a television set and air conditioner. He also disclosed that the club’s Kaunda ground will be refurbished, where teams can train and host matches to do away with hiring of training venues. About the Stadium construction in Kigamboni, Msolla pointed out that evaluation exercise was still going and soon, they are going to name the successful contractor to begin the project.