THE Moshi based sugar manufacturing company – TPC Limited has announced that there is enough stock of sugar, relieving consumers of whatever worries they had. The company has produced 103,000 tonnes of sugar this crop season, surpassing the previous crop season's production of 95,000 tonnes of sugar. TPC Ltd Executive Officer Corporate Services, Mr Jaffari Ally told the Minister for Agriculture, Professor Adolf Mkenda that the stock available is enough to serve demand for the sweet commodity. "The sugar we have in stock is enough to serve the needs of customers even after we suspend production in the near future to pave way for this year's long rains", he said, adding that even if there would be a small deficit, they are sure the government will be ready to work closely with them in addressing the challenge. Mr Jaffari said the increase in production was due to the company's strategic plans meant to rise manufacturing in the coming years, whereby he said last year's production was affected by floods and the yellow sugarcane aphid which affected sugar plantations. Prof Mkenda promised the TPC Ltd management that the government will continue to work closely with sugar investors in the country. "The government will continue to make sure that illegal imported sugar does not affect the local sugar factories; this will strengthen your establishments as well as the national economy, because when you do better, the economy will also be strengthened. "There was a time when sugar investors in the country were affected by the imported sugar, however, over the past five years, the government has regulated the importation of sugar arbitrarily from abroad; this decision has saved the country's sugar factories," he said. The assurance by TPC Ltd and that of the government will be a consolation to sugar consumers in the country who have been victims of unscrupulous traders who use the period of TPC factory's annual suspension of sugar production to raise sugar prices, a situation that has been going on for many years, to the extent that it is considered a lasting tradition. As per 2019 data, Tanzania's sugar demand stood at 470,000 tonnes a year, while the country's five sugar processing factories had the capacity of producing 378,000 tonnes.