THE African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHRP) has offered condolences to President of the United Republic of Tanzania Samia Suluhu Hassan following the death of then Head of State, Dr John Magufuli on Wednesday evening aged 61. In his letter of condolences issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday, ACHRP President Justice Sylvain Ore pointed out that it was with great sadness that he learned of the passing away on March 17, 2021 of His Excellency Dr John Magufuli, the Fifth President of the United Republic of Tanzania. "The death of President Magufuli is a great loss not only for Tanzania, to which he had dedicated his life, but also for Africa as a whole," Justice Ore said in his letter of condolences to Her Excellency Samia Suluhu Hassan, President of the United Republic of Tanzania. According to him, President Magufuli would be remembered for his foresightedness and his dedication to peace, human dignity and the development of Africa. His legacy, he said, would endure and continue to live in the hearts and minds of all. "On behalf of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights and on my own behalf, I pay tribute to the memory of the guarantor of institutions and national unit he was," the president of ACHRP is quoted as saying in the letter. He pointed out that the court joined during this difficult time with the Tanzanian nation in the morning and to express their deepest condolences. "We honour him (Magufuli) and mourn his loss alongside his family and the people of the United Republic of Tanzania. Please accept, Madam President, the assurances of my highest consideration and solidarity at this time of sorrow," the justice said in the letter. The world on Thursday joined Tanzanians in mourning the premature passing of Pan-Africanist, President John Magufuli, who was promoted to glory on Wednesday after losing his battle to a heart disease. Local and world leaders paid glowing tribute to Dr Magufuli, saying Tanzania and Africa had lost a unique statesman, visionary, bold and fearless leader who rose from humble beginnings and made immense contributions to his country. The nation is in great shock following the unexpected death of President John Magufuli yesterday. Dr Magufuli died from heart illness at Mzena hospital in Dar es Salaam where he was receiving treatment. Such untimely death of the charismatic leader has left Tanzanians devastated as they mourn the unbearable loss. What a loss! Tanzania has lost. Africa has lost. Dr Magufuli was born on October 29 and held different ministerial positions for about 20 years before becoming Tanzania's Head of State.