TANZANIA Building Agency (TBA) has purchased a batching concrete plant that has helped to cut running costs of the projects being undertaken by the agency. The machine that is capable of producing one cubic metre of concrete (2.5 tonnes) per minute, has made it easier for them to make quality building materials in the construction industry. This was revealed recently by TBA Chief Executive, Daud Kandoro, while presenting the progress report on the construction of the Magomeni quarter houses to the parliamentary committee when they visited the project. Mr Kandoro said the plant would also be available for hire to contractors with large projects, adding: “The batching concrete plant purchased at 2bn/- would be leased to local contractors at a lower cost in comparison to the cost that would be leased to foreign contractors,” said Kandoro. He further said the ongoing Magomeni quarter project is now over 91 per cent over, however, what remains is just external settings minor finishing task. Magomeni quarter, Project Manager Eng Bernard Mayemba said the concrete is well-equipped to measure the quality of cement, sand and pebbles so that they have the same consistency and quality. Batching plant is equipment that combines various ingredients to form concrete. Some of these inputs include water, air, admixtures, sand, aggregate (rocks, gravel, etc.), fly ash, silica fume, slag and cement. Mayemba said apart from having a concrete machine, they also bought a brick machine with the same goal of keeping quality. He said the brick machine has the capacity to break 5,500 to 6,000 bricks as they work on shift day and night. Per day, he said they can make up to 3000 bricks. Mayemba said despite reducing costs, TBA has also been able to create jobs for Tanzanians. Deputy Minister for Works and Transport, Godfrey Kasekenya lauded TBA for effective use of funds and use local professionals to do a great job. Expressing his satisfaction at the TBA’s performance, the Deputy Minister, said he hoped they will complete the remaining portion in time. “I’m impressed with the progress of this project. We must be proud of the work done by our fellow Tanzanians, and it is our hope that the project will be completed as they said,” said Eng Kasekenya