SPORTS fraternity in the country has applauded the nomination of Phillip Mpango to the post of Vice-President elect, describing him as a true sportsman. Mpango was nominated by President Samia Suluhu Hassan and unanimously endorsed by Members of the Parliament in Dodoma yesterday, where he got 363 votes, which is 100 per cent of the total votes cast. Prior to this new post, Mpango was the Minister for Finance and Planning. He will be sworn-in today at the Chamwino State house in Dodoma. Immediately, after the announcement of his nomination by the Speaker of the National Assembly, Job Ndugai and later being endorsed by the august House, congratulation messages started to pour in from various sports stakeholders. The 27 times Mainland Premier League champions, Young Africans sent their message through their official Instagram account to acknowledge Mpango’s nomination and endorsement by Bunge as the VPelect taking over from Samia, who was recently sworn in as President following the death of former President Dr John Magufuli. “On behalf of the club, members and fans of Yanga, we wish you all the best in your new responsibilities,” stated the mes sage. On the other hand Yanga traditional rivals and league defending champions Simba through their Board-Chairman, Mohammed Dewji, also commended the nomination and endorsement of Mpango as VPelect. Dewji wrote in his Instagram account “My sincere congratulations to Dr Philip Mpango. We have deep faith in your vision and objectives to take our nation to greater heights.” Apart from the football club other stakeholder who issued congratulations messages to Mpango, was the Tanzania Professional Boxing Regulatory Commission through their social media platforms, speaking highly of the newly VP-elect. They asserted that, “Honorable Philip Isdor Mpango. Congratulations for being nominated and endorsed by Bunge as the Vice-President of the United Republic of Tanzania. Professional Boxing association together with other boxing stakeholders will offer their full support to you.” It is recalled, during his presentation of the 2020/2021 financial year budget in Parliament, Dodoma; he teased Simba supporters for losing against Yanga in their derby encounter. In his ending remarks he reminded Simba fans of a goal scored by Bernard Morrison against Simba and he compared the pain that Simba fans were suffering as similar to that of a venomous spear. However Morrison has since crossed to Simba. “I believe you have not forgotten the day President Magufuli went to the National Stadium. He witnessed a game between the traditional rivals Yanga and Simba. He witnessed Simba stabbed with a sharp spear by Bernard Morrison, his remarks proves that is a follower of sports. On that day he commended the late President Magufuli and acknowledges as the best leader and who loves to see sports development. He noted the President has been a good sports man. Citing how he invited the national team “Taifa Stars” players and technical staffs and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) leaders at the State House in Dar es Salaam after the team qualified for 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals, which was staged in Egypt.