Cristiano Ronaldo has been accused of betraying his Juventus team-mates by the Italian media after the Serie A giants were knocked out of the Champions League. Andrea Pirlo's men were dumped out at the last-16 stage by Porto on Tuesday night after a thrilling clash in Turin saw them win 3-2 on the night, but lose on away goals following a 4-4 aggregate score. And Ronaldo, who turned his back on Sergio Oliveira's decisive free-kick in extra-time, has been singled out for his role in Juventus' shock early exit. Corriere dello Sport used the headline 'Betrayed by Ronaldo' on their front page on Wednesday morning, suggesting that the Portuguese should have blocked the shot which squeezed past Wojciech Szczesny and into the bottom corner. Oliveira's strike made it 2-2 on the night in the 115th minute and crucially gave Porto an extra away goal, meaning Adrien Rabiot's late winner three minutes later counted for nothing. The same newspaper also highlighted Szczesny for his role in Porto's second goal of the night - describing his failure to save the shot as a 'decisive error' - while making reference to the fact the visitors played with 10 men for over an hour after Mehdi Taremi's red card on 54 minutes. Gazzetta dello Sport also took aim at Pirlo and his players, calling Tuesday's result 'another Champions League disaster' for the club The Italian sports daily also singled out Ronaldo, saying he had 'disappointed' across the entire game, rather than just criticising him for his poor defending late on. Gazzetta claim that the future at Juve is now 'full of uncertainty' following their second consecutive exit from the Champions League at the last-16 stage. Tuttosport were also left frustrated by the Italian giants' performance, describing the club's elimination as 'incredible'. They used the headline 'Juve, not like that!' on their front page, seemingly in disbelief that the Serie A giants had failed to put away a side playing with 10 men for so long. The same newspaper also made a less than favourable comparison between Pirlo and former boss Maurizio Sarri, saying that the current manager was 'like' the man he replaced after being knocked out of the competition at the same stage. Corriere dello Sport were far from kind about the former Juve midfielder's role in his side's defeat too, describing Pirlo as 'incomplete' on their front page. The same paper also called Tuesday's shock defeat 'the bitterest night' for Juventus in what has been a difficult season so far.