THE Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Services Agency (TEMESA) said on Wednesday that its internal revenues have increased from 4bn/- to 54bn/- in the period of 13 years. According to TEMESA, the revenues were tapped from 2006/2007 to 2019/2020 fiscal year. TEMESA Chief Executive, Engineer Japhet Maselle said this during a presentation of a report on the entire administrative system of the agency and its responsibilities before a Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure in Dodoma. Eng Maselle said an increase in revenue collection had highly reduced dependence on the central government in the agency’s operations, as well as making TEMESA to provide an annual dividend to the government. “TEMESA managed to provide 1.1bn/- in the 2018/19 fiscal year in form of dividend while in 2019/20, the agency dished out 1.2bn/-,’’ he said. He added that proper revenue collections have also helped the agency to increase new ferries from 13 in 2015 to 33 in 2020. He said the agency also built two new vessels. The two vessels, according to him, offer services on Chato-Nkome route in Geita region and Mafia Nyamisati route in Coastal region. According to him, apart from those projects, the agency has equally participated in other crucial projects, including putting up electrical and security system in major flagship projects, including the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP), Mkulazi Sugar Industry, Magufuli City at Mtumba area in Dodoma as well as the Mirerani wall. Regarding putting up workshops in every district, Eng Maselle said TEMESA has procured Mobile Workshops in areas that are far from towns, as well as refurbishing some that were in poor condition. The Chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, Mr Selemani Kakoso underscored the need for the government to timely disburse fund to the agency so that it easily run its businesses. He directed the Ministry of Works and Transport through TEMESA and Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) to present to his committee all outstanding debts that the duo need to collect from all government institutions so that the committee could push for payments.