LIVESTOCK specialists are set to embark on the implementation of a special five-year programme (2021-2025) to push for the improvement of the livestock industry in the country. The strategy, among other things, will include conducting market research to identify raw materials for all livestock industries. Primarily, the animal raw materials are skins and hides, milk, meat, hoofs and many others. According to Acting Director-General of Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (Taliri), Dr Jonas Kizima, preliminary studies have discovered that most industries in the livestock products category are performing shoddily due to poor production and supply of raw materials. "The programme seeks to enable stakeholders in the beef and dairy cattle chains in all regions to improve their performance by adopting better technologies and practices so that they can stand a professional chance to meet actual raw material demand in the livestock industry," he said. He said the envisaged programme would introduce and help livestock keepers from across the country to raise hybrid animals, provide best animal health services, animal compounded and feeds, put in place animal husbandry infrastructure, improve milk handling, grazing systems and maintain good dairy animal genetics. For instance, he added: "Many livestock keepers encounter a technical challenge of inbreeding, which is detrimental to their livestock." He added there would be also a campaign to impart best animal feeding skills to livestock keepers. "If all goes well, we plan to establish centres of excellence in different zones to meet raw material demand for industries," he added. For his part, Acting Director of Livestock of Institute Training Authority (Lita) Balija Luyombya said the state-owned authority was also finalising a plan to start training livestock graduates in best animal keeping practices. He said the programme focused on spearheading different training programmes towards livestock keepers from across the country. This to comply with President John Magufuli’s directives on the revival and promotion of animal industries in Tanzania in the coming five years. In his remarks during the inauguration of the 12th Parliament, President Magufuli said in five years the government would construct seven major abattoirs in different regions with the capacity to slaughter at least 6,700 cows and 11,000 goats per day. He said the construction of the abattoirs was purposely for enabling the country to improve the performance and quality of meat as well as skins and hides. He said least 90 per cent of animal skins and skins produced in Tanzania were of poor quality due to poor slaughtering methodologies. He added that the government was determined to motivate investors from within and outside the country to invest in meat industries, but also in leather production and in other animal products such as hoofs.