THE national Beach Soccer team have accelerated their preparations ahead of the 4th edition of 2021 Beach Soccer Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers whose finals will be staged in Senegal. The country's envoys have a two legged fixture against Burundi with both games scheduled in the country on March 30th and April 4th at Coco Beach in the city whereby the overall winner will earn a ticket to feature in the finals. Initially, the matches were planned to be held on ‘home and away’ basis but the Burundi Football Federation requested both games to be played in Dar es Salaam hence an advantage for the home team to flourish. Speaking recently, the team's head coach Boniface Pawasa said everything is progressing well prior to the two qualifying matches and that his players are responding well to his lessons. "Until now, the level of concentration in the squad is very high and the players have morale to achieve success in both duels. We have five players from Zanzibar who have increased the tempo in the camp. "Let me urge Tanzanians wherever they are to give us full support so that in the end, we can be able to qualify and play in the AFCON finals. From what I see in training sessions, I have no doubt that the team will do better," he said. On his part, the team's coordinator Kasano Jonathan said they are eager to qualify into the AFCON finals for two successive seasons after doing the same in the past edition which was held in 2018 in Egypt. “The fact that both qualifying games will be played in the country is an advantage to us to shine that is why we are doing our level best to perform well in both ties. “What I want to urge Tanzanians is that they should be ready and willing to support us because this is their team. In Africa, we occupy eighth slot and this clearly shows how good our team is in terms of showcasing good performance as far as Beach Soccer is concerned,” he said. He added that Burundi is not a team to be underrated as they have quality players capable to stamp tangible results hence ample preparations is better for them.