THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) is investigating complaints against officials of the Munazzamat Dawa Al Islamiya Institute (MDI) which owns several schools in the country, including the Kunduchi Islamic Girls' School. "We have interrogated some of the complainants, we have collected some exhibits and we continue to summon and grill the suspects. Today (yesterday) March 9, 2021) we questioned the MDI Director, Mr Ally Magoga," reads part of a statement issued by PCCB. According to a statement signed by the Bureau's Public Relations Officer, Ms Doreen Kapwani on behalf of PCCB Director General, Brigadier General John Mbungo, some of the allegations as per the complaints fall under the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act no. 11 of 2007. "The purpose of this investigation, among other things, is to ascertain the truth of these complaints so that appropriate action can be taken," she said in the statement. One of the complaints links some school officials, including Board of Trustees cause debts to teachers and staff members. It is alleged that as of March 2021, the teachers and staff members of Kunduchi Islamic School are claiming 406m/- from MDI, of which the director did not want to pay. Similarly, the Director of MDI in collaboration with the new Director of Education of Kunduchi School, are alleged to have entered into bad contracts to lease the school to various owners without following proper procedures. "The MDI leadership is also accused of evading legitimate taxes and thus causing losses to the government, and that school revenues have been ending up in the hands of a few smart people within the Institute," it is explained in the statement. Other complaints include MDI announcing the dismissal of all teachers and staff members of Kunduchi Islamic School without paying their dues on the grounds that it is an order from the regional leadership. Similarly, the MDI is being accused that since 2017, there is a Board of Trustees leading the school but it is not registered with the Registration, Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA). “That the Board of Trustees, in collaboration with MDI officials, has given themselves the authority to approve all school account payments - something that is against the rules,” Ms Kapwani said in the statement. Other complaints mentioned in the statement are about school officials as well as the Board of Trustees allegedly making non-transparent financial transactions.