HAVE you ever wokenup feeling sick and has no explanation(s)? How did you react? I bet, it was painful, terrifying and may be disturbing, somehow in the corner, your mind also might have scanned for the best hospitals or a particular medical specialist available in your friends’ cycles, and you probably wondered around on the whereabouts of your health insurance, didn’t you? Either was it a single case at time or seldom happened, so long as, it ended well, you owe God a gigantic thank you, hence, before you continue reading this article, I kindly suggest that, you close your eyes, thank God and then put on a smile to celebrate life, because millions of people must have woken-up with pain, but not you, some must have survived on drugs, lived by the service of hospitals and medical personnel because they battle for diseases. This article is all but in nutshell, seek to explain what to expect when you are diagnosed with kidney diseases at young age, especially with an ending stage, partly, to raise awareness of kidney health as we commemorate the world kidney day. Each second week in the month of March, the world come together to commemorate the world kidney day, in particular, to raise awareness on matters related to kidney health. This year, the world kidney Day Steering Committee has declared 2021 the year of “Living Well with Kidney Disease” they say the theme has been done in order to both increase education and awareness about effective symptom management and patient empowerment, with the goal of encouraging life participation. As part of awareness, I thought it was important that I share some few tips to keep up with kidney diseases to the fellow young lad, because this year world kidney day comes few days after February 17th 2021, the day, I celebrated my fourth year on dialysis treatment after my kidneys were confirmed totally failed in February 2017. In fact, I am not medical personnel, so I won’t touch anything related to the technical aspect of the disease, instead, I will share my experience as a person living with chronic kidney diseases, few things which I believe will be of help to someone who has just been diagnosed with kidney diseases. First, death and sickness might be viewed as identical twins by many people around you, but they aren’t identical, instead they are neighbours separated by walls, they cannot always see each other, like those neighbours, when you get sick, it is not always that you end up dead, do not fear, sickness is not death. For the past four plus years, I have lost a lot of friends whom not only I thought they were very health; strong with esteemed longevity as opposed to me. Secondly, listen and learn how to survive with the disease, there are things that we ‘human’ can control and those which we cannot, you don’t choose the diseases, it chooses you, avoid disturbing your mind for questions no one can answer, but focus on what might resolve the situation, listen and learn how to survive with the disease, you will do a great favour to yourself. Soon after the diagnosis, usually, there are temptations to cry and mourn, questions like, why me, what about my future, my dreams, are deemed to haunt you, Hello! We live once, since you are living, stop whining, it will not change a thing. Thirdly, avoid the imposed isolation by those around you, either is your family or friends, just ignore and stay engaged, take yourself out, have fun, in fact some people will stop calling you or engage you into community activities, because they assume you are sick, so do some initiatives and be there, that way, you can remain part of the world. Fourth, take your medications as prescribed by the medical personnel, it is your new normal, you will never back it up, accept the new you, of course, you might admire the old you but with kidney diseases you aren’t the very same. Stay out of trouble by following the procedures and adhering to the medical limits. There are a lot of myths that victimise kidney diseases, some believe, the diseases are associated with witchcraft, or demonic attack and sorts of stuffs. When you sail into the boat of those myths, you are likely to lose focus on your treatments, the apostles, the bishops, the prophets will attract your attention, as for me, it is good to believe, but very important to behave while believing. Four years living with kidney diseases has taught me things, when the men of God get sick, they too seek for medical assistance while praying for healing, use your common sense by doing as they do, likewise, witch doctors might attract you, remember, people die out of ignorance, they don’t perish for shortage in belief. Finally, the fact that you are sick, it does not mean the world has stopped, life continues, if you can work, just go and work, if you are still in school, go pursue your studies, you can still do as much as your energy allows.