TANZANIA national team ace Victor Joseph had to endure sadness, grief and sorrow following the death news of Tanzania President, John Magufuli a few hours before his first round tees off at the Magic Kenya Open Championship on Thursday at Karen Country Club in Nairobi, Kenya. The national golf team captain though, had to tighten grips to carded 3-over 74 strokes at first round of the showdown. The four-day 72-hole European Tour tournament brought together over 156 top professional golfers and East African top amateurs. Amateurs golfers including Joseph qualified to compete amongst World’s top pros after winning different Kenyan amateur national competitions between 2019 and 2021, because last year's event was cancelled due to global coronavirus pandemic crisis. Joseph told the ‘Daily News’ from Nairobi after the first round that it wasn’t easy for him after receiving the sad news. “The news of the death of the President had left me with nothing but sadness, shock and sorrow as I was just getting ready to tee off,” he said. Joseph stressed that he had to calm himself and put his head down to overcome tension and pressure before he grossed 74 strokes in a tough event. He hit two birdies and a bogey in the first nine to go back nine one under, but the double bogeys on number 10 hole par 5, straight bogey at both par 5 no. 11 and 12 and par 3 no.14 and no.17 par 4 had let him down before correcting the mistake to finish with another birdie on 18th hole. Yesterday around 14.00, he was scheduled to enter into second round action to find his fate as dreaming of making the cut at the European Tours competition for the first time. Joseph, who qualified to play for the European Tour’s after winning the 2019 Kenya Amateur Open Golf Championship, is looking to become the first Tanzania to make the cut in the event. The tournament saw Benjamin Hebert of France stunning others to claim a lead by one shot with a 7-Under 64 strokes while England’s Horsfield Sam, Jacquelin Raphael (France), Meronk Adrian (Poland), Ritthammer Bernd (Germany), Samooja Kalle (Finland), Syme Connor (Sco), Hebert Benjamin (France) each carded impressive six-under 65 strokes to stay second in the leaders board after the first round. About half in the 156 golfers list who play well will continue to round three today, while others will have to go home early and wait for the next chance.