TAIFA Stars are ready to face Kenya in an international friendly match to be played at Nyayo Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya on Monday. The two teams will play again on Thursday in another build up encounter prior to Taifa Star’s crucial away Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifying match against Equatorial Guinea set on March 25th. Both friendly matches have been specifically arranged to give Stars a required rhythm before they head to Equatorial Guinea in a tough duel as each side hunts maximum three points to cement their chances of sailing into the AFCON finals. Stars arrived safely in Kenya over the weekend fully armed to succeed in both signal test ties even though they will miss some players who are yet to join them as they still have assignments with their respective clubs. For example, all Simba players who were included in the squad are expected to join their colleagues in Kenya after their CAF Champions League match against Al-Merrikh of Sudan tomorrow. Speaking recently before their Kenya trip, Star’s Head Coach Kim Poulsen narrated that currently, they have 23 players in the squad and are the ones to play in today’s match while the other group of players will be featured in the next game on Thursday. “I believe that by then, we will have the full squad ready to go to the battlefield for the two essential matches and our mission is to qualify for the AFCON finals,” he said. Moreover, Poulsen reiterated that the current number of players he has in his team is a good balance of experienced and young stars with all of them working hard to shine in the forthcoming duels. Packed in group J, from four matches, Tanzania have garnered 4 points hence they surely need to win both of their remaining fixtures to stand a good chance of sneaking into the finals. The table toppers are Tunisia who have maximised 10 points from their four matches and have already qualified to play in the AFCON finals while Equatorial Guinea are second with 6 points in their bag. Last on the table are Libya who have pocketed 3 points from four games and their last game will be against Taifa Stars at the giant Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city. In general, the chances for the country’s flag bearers to shine in the contest are very big beginning with their critical away encounter versus Equatorial Guinea where a win will be a boost for them.