NEW Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan has been described as a well composed, calm, focused and good listener whose qualities reflect the true definition of strong women leaders. This has come about after she became the first woman President of the United Republic of Tanzania. She was sworn in to assume the country’s top office in Dar es Salaam yesterday following the death of President John Magufuli. Before Ms Suluhu Hassan served as Vice-President under President Magufuli between 2015 and 2020. After Dr Magufuli was re-elected President of the United Republic of Tanzania and after he was sworn in to assume office, he re-appointed Ms Suluhu Hassan his Vice-President. President Magufuli served until March 17, this year, when he died at Mzena Hospital in Dar es Salaam, where he was hospitalised. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday after being sworn as the new Head of State, analysts see President Samia Suluhu Hassan as a committed and hard working woman who is passionate about moving forward the development agenda and addressing challenges facing the people. Tumaini University Dar es Salaam College (TUDARco) lecturer Rachel Yusuph Mariam said the new President reigned in a new generation, putting into practice gender equality in the country. “The incoming of President Samia Suluhu Hassan shows Tanzania respects the contribution of women to the country’s development, thanks to President John Magufuli who gave women opportunities in every level of leadership.” She said the new President was one of the greatest women in Tanzania, hardworking, tolerant, wise and polite and who never gives up. “President Samia Suluhu Hassan is a good example of a woman who balances between family and work. She uses her mind very well and the knowledge gained in school for the benefit of the nation,” she said. She explained that the new President had defied the patriarchal system as it was in many Africa countries by joining other countries like Scandinavian countries, the United Kingdom (UK) and many others that allowed women to do what men could do. All the best, our prayers are always with her,” she added. The university lecturer was optimistic that President Samia Suluhu Hassan would take Tanzania to another level and change the perception of some people that women were inferior to men. A political and current affairs analyst, Mr Roy Sarungi, considers President Samia Suluhu Hassan as a woman with principles and that people should not underestimate her since she is capable of making bold decisions. He said the new President was a good listener and performer and that her decisions always based on the interests of the country. “Those who may be thinking it's time for them to start pushing for their personal agendas in Tanzania after the passing on of President Magufuli are wrong. Mama Samia will perform better through her own leadership style,” he explained. For his part, a lecturer at the Centre for Foreign Studies, Mr Innocent Shoo, referred to Mama Samia as the most understanding woman leader in Tanzania and that her passion for addressing challenges of social service delivery provided clear evidence of her love and care for the country. “She is also a good listener who believes in following correct procedures and is the most understanding politician in Tanzania and Africa,” he said. He said Mama Samia was also considered a visionary leader, whose leadership started when she was working for a nongovernmental organisation. Former Iringa Urban Member of Parliament Rev Peter Msigwa (Chadema) through his Twitter account @MsigwaPeter was optimistic that President Samia would unite the country, as Chadema Central Zone Chairman Lazaro Nyalandu wished the best for the new President to discharge her duties accordingly. Commenting on the new President, Mr Ramadhani Sebo, who is Principal of Vocational Training College in Chato District, Geita Region, described the new President as a well experienced person in leadership. “She has been working closely with President Magufuli for the past five years. I’m confident in her capacity and working spirit. The country has lost a patriotic and hardworking leader, but at the same time, we have a good leader,” he said.