‘SHIFTING sands’ is a phrase in English that denotes a natural phenomenon relating to mysterious movement and displacement of large volumes of sand from one specific area to another. It is more evident in deserts or semi-arid settings. This happening looks close what is being witnessed at the Jangwani valley in Dar-es-Salaam. The only difference however is that at the Jangwani valley, it is a manmade activity coming at a very high cost to the tax payer. Jangwani (pun not intended) is the Swahili word for desert. It all began towards the last quarter of 2019 when short rains unexpectedly pounded us to no end. Jangwani was almost suddenly inundated with floods. Morogoro Road which straddles the valley is the umbilical cord to the hinterland and beyond to the neighbouring countries. Dar-es-Salaam came to a standstill. Nothing moved for days and traffic was diverted to other avenues which in turn caused endless jams. Jangwani has a stretched history of floodings. This has become a perennial event the city braces itself for. However, Jangwani valley is just a city lowland that accommodates the Msimbazi seasonal river as it meanders through all the way from the Kisarawe hills southwest enroute Tabata to Jangwani and finally into the Indian O cean, crossing at the Salender Bridge. The speed and flow of water obviously, though periodic, leads to unimaginable siltation in the valley. The catchment area can easily span in excess of 50km. In the colonial times and after independence, when floods came calling, artisanal miners were allowed and supervised to harvest sand on the riverbed. This kept the river trail clear of obstruction in the event of floods. In recent years the regional governance banned sand harvesting in which case all the bridges remained clogged up to the brim. So when rains come, disaster accompanies it. This eventuality is what befell us in 2019. While floods are a regular occurrence, the intensity has become insurmountable. Most often than not, unbeknownst to the city residents, it might shower lightly in the Pugu Hills in Kisarawe area and havoc would ensue in Jangwani. The costs are high, business is affected and the costs are discounted as collateral damage. Dar-es-Salaam stops functioning. All this while, Dar-es- Salaam, a metropolis of some six million needed an organised public transport system for a very long time. This prompted the authorities to devise the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project (Phase 1) which began operating in 2016. The project was supported by a World Bank loan of more than 360 million US dollars, a mind boggling amount as compared to the realities on the ground. Still it did seem like a small step but in the right direction. There was a lot of hullabaloo on this project before and during construction. The advantages were trumpeted as the panacea to Dares- Salaam’s chronic transport problem. The preps were an extravaganza of high end consultancies and endless meetings of government functionaries. Officers travelled the world to learn the other models; from Bogota to Abuja to Sao Paulo and where else, as fattened allowances lined their suit pockets. The final detailed designs were purported to resolve all possible eventualities. Then the fly in the ointment; when Jangwani floods the whole bus system grinds to a halt. When all was done, to the Dar-es-Salamites, nothing substantial was evident. O ther than the pedestrian bridges at Kawawa Road, Ubungo and Kimara, there was no new bridge constructed. All the other old bridges were simply extended at both ends to accommodate the extra lanes. The two concrete bus lanes and the elongated bus stations are probably the only new physical structures visible to the onlooker. The rest, the Jangwani embankment is the same old one with the same height, the Jangwani bridges are the same old bridges built through a Japanese aid in the early 8 0s. Whoever hatched the idea of positioning the main BRT depot at Jangwani needs to do some explaining. A year or two after commissioning, floods engulfed the entire bus fleet at the depot destroying all their expensive electronic systems. Half of the fleet was grounded for a long time causing unwanted hardships to the urban dwellers. As from then, a cloud gazing officer sounds out the drivers every time a dark cloud hovers above Dar-es-Salaam. Hell breaks loose and the whole troop of buses are raced to Kimara for safe keeping. It is elementary that siltation in the valley has dramatically increased over the years due to uncontrolled deforestation and other agro activities upstream. This includes all the industrial waste and plastic debris that come along with the flow. The volume of this debris and waste is huge and threatening considering no effort is expended by the authorities to mop up the environment around the area. As a result, the ground level at Jangwani must have added quite a few centimeters. From bad to worse, all these factors have helped the growth of thick vegetation across the valley from Morogoro Road all the way to the Indian O cean with the obvious effect of retaining sand, mud and debris. I am certain some responsible officer somewhere believes that everything that vegetates and is green in colour is good for the environment. Alas, this could explain the presence of the thick ugly mangrove along the Salender Bridge ocean front. To deal with the here and now, authorities have engaged two contractors. O ne is at Mkwajuni valley which j oins Jangwani at Kinondoni. This project began in earnest after the seasonal rains last year. Stone embankments were erected to guide the seasonal river and mitigate flooding. By December 2020 every little bit of effort had been washed away. Nothing exists there as for now. Waste of public funds results from bad planning. No one anticipated the rains in their work programmes? The second is the contractor who was engaged in the last quarter of 2019 to work on de-silting the three Jangwani bridges. The contractor has remained at the site to date, almost one and a half years later. And what does he do? All the contractor does is ‘fire brigade’ work. Every time the Dares- Salaam skies get dark, he springs into action. Shifting sands at the Jangwani Valley. The dozers and excavators are all deployed along a fleet of trucks shifting sand from one point to another. They then wait for another drizzle a day after before they repeat yesterday’s exercise. Day in, day out. How much billions have been paid out is anybody’s guess. No one has an inkling when this tender was advertised. What were the envisaged results? How much will it cost? Who are the beneficiaries of this exercise? Is the contractor selling the sand? When will this project end? Questions abound! Meanwhile, the contractor at site is laughing all the way to the nearest bank branch. Clearly, the only long term remedy, which in some mysterious way was overlooked at the beginning, is to raise the embankment of Morogoro Road along with the bridges. This will drain the delta fast enough as to avoid flooding. Short term smart thinking should have led the authorities to engage and regulate a contractor to harvest the sands at Jangwani at a fee. In the process, the government would have generated revenue rather than spending taxpayer’s money. Sand is a scarce and valuable building material in Dar-es-Salaam. This step would have created the so called win-win situation. What is playing out at Jangwani hardly portends good governance. Many coastal countries have had similar circumstances akin to our Jangwani spectacle. As previously stated, the area between Morogoro Road and Salender Bridge is home to thick vegetation and mangroves. This is most definitely mosquito breeding ground whose impact is mostly borne by the neighbouring Muhimbili National Referral Hospital and its sister institutions in particular and Dar-es-Salaam at large. This area is responsible for most infections of malaria, dengue and other mosquito borne maladies in Dar. Surely, something could be done to solve this matter. One of the most touted ideas for Jangwani is to clear all the vegetation in the area and excavate the area so as to invite the sea into the Jangwani valley all the way to Kigogo. This would create a waterway and facilitate marine transport systems. Water sports would be an added recreation. Malaria will be a thing of the past and the floods will be history. The Cubans have executed similar projects successfully in Varadero and elsewhere as a way of dealing with mosquito borne maladies in lagoons. We can take a leaf. Can’t we? * abdallahmed@gmail.com