SIMBA have been pleased with the reception they received in Sudan, ahead of their Match Day Three of CAF Champions League against host Al Merreikh in Khartoum on Saturday(March 6,2021). The club’s Head of Communication Department Haji Manara said the team was in right frame of mind after arriving safely in Khartoum ready for the group A battle. “We arrived here (Khartoum) safely and the team is in positive frame of mind. I urge our fans and country at large to pray for our squad as everything is in order and under control,” said Manara. He further noted that they are very pleased with Sudan’s great reception as they arrived in Sudan’s capital city. “We are very pleased with Sudan’s great reception and respect…everything is under control, as we have not encountered any problem. Players are relaxed and raring to go,” said Manara. The Msimbazi Reds have won their two opening matches of the Group A against much fancied AS Vita of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) posting a 1-0 victory away before registering victory of the same margin against Egypt’s Al Ahly at home. Al Merreikh lost 3-0 against Al Ahly in Cairo in group opener before suffering a 4-1 defeat at their home ground against AS Vita from DR Congo. Now parading six points above the rest in the group of the continental top tie club championship, Simba look a serious contender this time and with increased efforts, concentration and extra commitment, the Tanzania envoys may see the quarters prior to the end of six-match assignment. The Mainland giants will play at an empty venue on Saturday, in which a win will put the Tanzanian side into a pole position to go through into the quarter finals, as they will remain top with maximum nine points. Simba’s French tactician Didier Gomes Da Rosa has cautioned his players that they should not underrate their opponents because of their past results, insisting that Al Merreikh is one of the biggest clubs in the continent. “We must take things very serious and be ready as they are very dangerous at home. They lost at home against AS Vita and they cannot afford another defeat at their own back yard,”   disclosed the tactician who is going to face his former side in Omdurman. However, Gomes said that his squad has the quality, ability and the discipline to get positive result away in Sudan. “To be honest, it will be a very big fight because like I said, Al Merreikh cannot accept to lose three times consecutively, so we must be ready but you know what we have already done against Al Ahly and if we are able to play like we did against Egyptian giants, we have clear hopes to win,” he said.