SO the Bible says in Galatians 6:7-9 that we will reap what we sow. So if we plant good things then that is what we will reap. But if we plant bad things then that is what we will reap as constructors of substandard roads now are being alerted after the government purchased a special machine for examining quality of roads constructed across the country. The device worth 900m/- has a capacity to measure all roads within just three to four months, according to the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication Permanent Secretary, Arch Elius Mwakalinga. The ministry’s technocrat revealed this after the Parliamentary Standing Committee on infrastructure visited and inspected the construction of residential houses at Magomeni Quarters in Dar es Salaam. “This is a huge machine ... and I think it has never existed before. In Africa this machine is found only in South Africa and Angola. With its size, you are able to inspect all 36,000 km of roads across the country for three to four weeks,” said Mwakalinga. He said the machine was purchased from Finland, and it will cost another 300m/- for installation and other supporting facilities, thus making a total of 1.2bn/-. Elaborating, the technology will make it easier to know the quality of all roads in the country in real time and enable them to identify unscrupulous contractors. “This system is stable and the first one in the country. It works well because even the person in charge reports while in the office and can see it on the computer. This will identify unscrupulous contractors since everything will be visible in the office while the supervisor is on site,” Secretary Mwakalinga said. In his explanation, a specialist from Finland is in the country to train ministry staff on how to use it, adding that there was still another specialist from Finland who is expected to arrive in the country to train ministry experts on how to install it. “Experts in the ministry are continuing to receive training on how to measure a road using the machine, but there is also another specialist from Finland who will come to teach our experts how to install it and be able to get real time results accordingly,” said Mwakalinga. By and large, this sounds a warning to contractors that you can cheat sometime, but you will never cheat all the times, hence, the only homage to pay to truth (honesty at work) is to respect it.