TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) has opened the opportunity for large investors to support the efforts of small investors in avocado farming. The TIC move is geared to push further the country’s efforts in upping its avocado production per year, at a time when Tanzania is the second largest producer of avocado fruit in Africa after Kenya. TIC Southern Highlands Regional Manager, Venance Mashiba, said the programme aimed at facilitating joint venture between large and small avocado investors and create a common goal in logistics until the crop reaches consumers. “What we are doing is connecting large and small investors who are basically the avocado producers,” he said, adding that way they will warrant more production while finding avocado markets for farmers. Latest data showed that the country produces about 190,000 tonnes per year of which between 5,000 and 10,000 tonnes were exported in 2018. TIC said their spot survey showed that farmers have increased production of avocado after rising awareness of small local investors to invest in the crop. Mr Mashiba also noted that the government has put a plan to prepare a guideline manual of investment opportunities in the southern highlands region, saying it would open up Mbeya with opportunities and become an economic gateway for both big and small investors. Mashiba said large investors will help small scale farmers to access both domestic and foreign markets and the use of simple technology and integration into the value chain. TIC believes that Songwe airport poises another opportunity as a gateway for the crop to reach international markets and also for other agricultural products, including fruits, flowers and vegetables. One of the avocado growers Mr Samson Mwakyusa from Makandana village in Rungwe District said they wanted to be connected to large investors and financial institutions to provide them with loans that will enable them expand business. However, farmers could also form their unions which will warrant accessing of modern technology and education on avocado farming in accessing markets