SPORTS associations and federations that have not complied with the government's order to submit strategic development plans and activities for this year, have been given at least a week to complete. Since December 2020, the government instructed all sports associations and federations in the country to submit their strategic plans for various activities that they will implement. National Sports Council (NSC) Acting Secretary General George Msonde said in a statement that by last Wednesday, only 38 sports bodies had submitted their planning. He said: “I want to take this opportunity to congratulate all the sports bodies that have so far submitted their strategic development plans.” Msonde stressed that they are also conducting a study of the events listed by sports bodies, to see how the government through the sports development fund can partner with them to support national teams’ preparation in various international competitions. “I also issue an order to the sports associations and federations that have not submitted to do so immediately. We give them until March 12, this year for them to submit their plans,” he said. He said that failure to submit such strategic plans first deprives them of the opportunity to be recognised by the government as to what plans they have for the year. Msonde insisted that the government will take action against bodies and federations that will fail to submit within the given time. He named associations that have already submitted as Tanzania Wheelchair Basketball Federation (TWBF), Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU), Tanzania Wrestling Federation (TWF), Tanzania Sports Medicine Association (TASMA), Tanzania Tennis Association (TTA), Tanzania Amateur Netball Association (CHANETA), Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Fitness Instructors Association of Tanzania(FIAT), Tanzania Body Building Federation, Tanzania Baseball & Softball Association (TaBSA), Tanzania Pool Association (TAPA), Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) and Athletic Tanzania (AT). Others are Tanzania Taekwon-Do-Association, Tanzania Taekwondo Federation, Tanzania Professional Boxing Federation, Tanzania Handball Federation (TAHA), Tanzania Traditional Games Federation (CHAMIJATA), Tanzania Association of Sports Centres and Academy, Boxing Federation of Tanzania (BFT), Tanzania Weightlifting Tanzania (TWT), Tanzania Shotokan Karate Tanzania (TASHOKA), Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) and Kabaddi Sport Club. Also in the submitted list are Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF), Tanzania WUSHU Association, Tanzania Amputee Football Federation (TAFF), Tanzania Roll Ball Association, Tanzania Universities Sports Association ( TUSA), Tanzania Swimming Association (TSA), Tanzania Para Powerlifting Association, Tanzania Judo Association, Tanzania Paralympic Committee (TPC), Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Tanzania Sailing Association (TSAA), Automobile Association of Tanzania (AAT), Tanzania Sports for Deaf and Tanzania Special Olympic.