INCLUSIVE education stakeholders have decried out-dated cultural norms and traditions, which deny persons with disabilities their right to education among other basic rights. Other basic rights denied to the group of people with special needs as well as people with disabilities are medical treatment, user friendly infrastructure, social issues, leadership posts and access to contribute to public meetings. Stakeholders called for a change of mindset to give persons with disabilities an opportunity to exercise their talents during inclusive education training, organised by Free Pentecostal Church Tanzania (FPCT) for communitybased organisations and civil society organisations that advocated children with disabilities rights. A representative from Dodoma-based Nongovernment Organisation Afnet, Mr Richard Mwaga, said there were some out-dated cultural norms and traditions, which denied children with disabilities basic rights, education being among them, thus made them remain dependent, while they had talents to develop and contribute to their communities. He said civil society organisations and government should cooperate and conduct awareness training especially in areas where the trend was rampant to bring about social change for the betterment of society. For his part, Mr Erick Mapunda representing Tanzania Cheshira Foundation said children with disabilities, if well engaged, stood a big chance to contribute to socioeconomic development, thus access to education should be a priority to the group. He said if families with children with disabilities, the government and nongovernmental organisations cooperated for a change of mindset and facilitate them to stand on their own including improving their welfare, it would be a good starting point for inculcating in members positive perception. Advocate Fredrick Mkatambo said inclusive education was of paramount importance and treating all persons equally without discrimination would bring about desired social change. Mr Mkatambo said it was a good thing to treat children with disabilities equally like children who did not have any disability as it was an avenue that gave them chance to prosper economically. “Schools must have an enabling environment for reading and well-designed infrastructure to accommodate their needs so that they can study comfortably,” said advocate Mkatambo.