The government has said it is keen on supporting efficiency of the telecommunication sector to increase revenue and boost to the economy. “We are mindful of the contribution that the telecommunications sector makes to our economy and we want to keep it up. We want to address challenges hindering operational efficiency and growth in the sector,” said Deputy Minister for Communications and Information Technology Kundo Mathew in Dar es Salaam at the weekend. The deputy minister together with telecommunications stakeholders held a meeting with Vodacom executive committee members led by Managing Director Hisham Hendi to commitment to collaboration in the telco sector. Key telecommunications stakeholders are Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF), Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) and Consumer Consultative Council (CCC). According to telco market analysis by BuddeComm last year, smartphone penetration reached 25 per cent, steering the emergence of a digital economy in Tanzania. With the telco sector contributing over 1.9 per cent to the national GDP, efficiency in operations has a direct impact on tax revenue, employment, access to digital tools and economic prosperity. “Our visit today aims at strengthening cooperation between the government and the telco sector and deliberate on ways forward to increase customer value and ensure profitability beyond just operational efficiency for the sector to increase its contribution to the economy,” said the deputy minister. Among the issues deliberated on include pricing structure, spectrum accessibility and national fibre connectivity. Vodacom Tanzania Managing Director Hisham Hendi said the move was very much appreciated and welcomed by Vodacom that had been instrumental in driving digitisation through the provision of custom solutions impacting customers, payment systems and millions of Tanzanians. “We believe that effective use of technology, innovation and customer immersion are critical enablers of socioeconomic growth,” he said