TANZANIA expects to be exporting one million tonnes of yellow maize after the government’s efforts to obtain a market of the agricultural product in Egypt. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Gerald Kusaya, said the products are expected to be exported in Egypt beginning July 2021 via an Egyptian company—Smart Group. The PS said the good news came after holding a meeting with the Chairman of Smart Group Company, Yasser Attia, who came to Tanzania in his bid to pursue business opportunities in the country. Mr Kusaya further added that his ministry in collaboration with the office of the Tanzanian Embassy in Egypt had managed to convince business people from the foreign nation to come to Tanzania to discuss business opportunities in order to help smallholder and large farmers to have a market for their produce. “In our day-long discussions in Dodoma, Smart Group Company from Egypt agreed to buy yellow maize, and they have said that they will be exporting a maximum of 1 million tonnes each year,’’ said Mr Kusaya. He said the Egyptian company was looking for yellow maize for production of fish and livestock food, adding that this was yet another opportunity for Tanzanians because many of them were not producing yellow maize for consumption. According to him, currently production of yellow maize in the country was still low, therefore this was an opportunity for farmers to venture into producing yellow maize so that they can have access to foreign markets. The Chairman of Smart Group said his company needed at least eight million tonnes of yellow maize, adding that currently, they were importing them from Argentina and Ukraine. He said President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi was well committed to seeing Egyptian companies coming to invest in several African countries, and this is why his company decided to come to Tanzania. “We came here believing that Tanzanians are our relatives and we believe in increasing business cooperation between our two countries so that farmers can produce more and have access to the market,’’ said Mr Attia.