IT is worth praise to the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) for keeping pace with the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli in his war against corruption, especially in the civil service, where some dishonest civil servants conspire to embezzle public funds. According to media reports the PCCB has been hot on heels of all sorts of corrupt people including civil servants, who might think being entrusted to man any public office must go with fleecing it or robbing institutions terming it shamba la bibi. You may ask yourself, are these really Tanzanians and do they have mercy on taxpayers’ money collected as taxes to address community projects? If this culture still persists in the civil service and society, then Tanzanians have all the reasons to go to a drawing table and chart tough penalties for them. For instance, yesterday this paper published a story where PCCB in Kagera Region saved 29m/- that had been stolen through inflated coffee sales during 2018/2019 season and prompting the Regional Commissioner Marco Gaguti to dissolve the Tanganyika Instant Coffee Public Limited Company (TANICA PLC) board. The list might be long of how the watchdog is cornering corrupt individuals some going to the extent of swindling retired civil servants of their pensions, it must be noted that crime in the short and long run will not pay. And though man inherently dislikes to work and must be forced to work, work in this scenario should not be interpreted as robbing the citizens of their hard-earned money, just because a person has been entrusted in an office as a leader to oversee their funds and development. It beats logics to find out that the government and citizens are busy building a transparent generation of hardworking and honest civilians, while some dishonest and egocentric people are backpeddling the country to the dark days, where every Tom, Dick, and Harry, in the same Shamba la bibi style are still fleecing and looting public funds. Think of a case, just the tip of the iceberg that the Katavi Regional PCCB Commander, Mr Christopher Nakua, managed to recover and returned 15,193,500/- to Tanganyika District Executive Director, Mr John Lumuli, being property of Kamjela Primary School that was swindled by a supplier who was contracted to supply building materials to the school. This is crystal clear that some looters are still in the community, though seen as honest civil servants, but prowling for any project(s) funds to eat, a culture that should not be allowed to thrive in Tanzania. It is possible to fight corruption and the dream should start from you and I.