DRIVEN by competition and customer demand, postal and parcel operators are now making use of advanced technology to improve operational efficiency and to offer new products and services. The move comes due to evolution of digitalisation that has changed the role of the postal sector as mail volumes decline and parcel volumes grow. To capitalise on the changing technology, the Tanzania Postal Corporation (TPC) has come up with a new “Posta Kiganjani’ services through use of mobile phone. Thus the development of Information Technology has led the organization to come up with a solution for every mobile phone owner to own his or her postal address. Unlike in the past many people who lived in the same area, where one address was used by many people for example in school the address is used by the whole school, including students, teachers and other staff, now through each cell phone will have their own personal address. Therefore the presence of such an address via mobile phone will set a wide range of users of the service different from what it was before. The Chief Postmaster General, Hassan Mwang’ombe, said recently that the 2003 post office policy clearly states that addresses for everyone so in implementing this Tanzania has established residential and postcode addresses that continue to apply to all people. He said the number of subscribers to the new Smart Post service is 488 while the existing postal boxes are 173,125 the whole country. The reason for the introduction of residential addresses and postcodes is due to the presence of fewer boxes compared to the population. By using the existing post boxes forces many people to share one box take to account that people lived different area also time consuming. An example of the staff of institutions and their relatives, Churches, Mosques, Schools and various offices who continue to use the address of their institutions even if they have moved or resigned. To overcome this challenge TPC come with a solution of having posta Kiganjani. The service will addresses the existing limitations of the use of the post office box where most people use the same box. Not only that it also helps in residential addresses for example one family or several people living in the same house are forced to use the same address which is the house number. “This means that everyone will have their own personal address even if most people live in the same house or work in the same area thus increase the confidentiality of personal information as it will go directly to the person,” he said. The Postmaster General encouraged people to have that service and said it is easy to use by all Tanzanians as the telephone number is the post office box of the person instead of using the existing post office. Every mobile phone owner can sign up for the Kiganjani postal Service for smart phones and some other devices such as computers can be used to register a person at the Kiganjani postal Service. He describes the Agency’s services using a postal address as shipping of goods, goods, letters, documents, packages and regular as well as fast parcels. The Postmaster General mentions the benefits of the Kiganjani post office service; it is every mobile phone owner to have his or her address and easy for someone to sign up with the Kiganjani postal service. Other benefits include having to register and pay for the address for one year or more, the ability to pay for the address repeatedly at any time during the initial payment period and to be able to use the various postal services easily. What the Postmaster General emphasizes is that the customer will be notified of his/her luggage from the time of delivery until he/she receives it and all the shipping steps, via text message as soon as his/her consignment is received and received by the post office and be able to monitor his/ her luggage more freely. It also enables the customer to change the reception area at any time, increase digital freedom of communication and enable the agency to serve the customer more freely as the customer needs. Both customers can get special online shopping from abroad and all postal services that need to be tracked (Track and trace). The TPC, Head of Communications, Elia Madulesi said the Posta Kiganjani service is easy to use for all Tanzanians as everyone uses their own phone number as their mailbox. “We say your phone number is your address. Instead of using the post office box located at the post offices, everyone can have his/her own box which will be available by using his/ her mobile phone”. TPC is ready to serve all Tanzanians through the Posta Kiganjani service Postal code has added and enabled the owner of the Virtual Box (Virtual Box) address to login to the system by logging in and out (Logout). The system is also integrated with various postal systems internationally and locally for ease of customer service. Similarly, through the post office in hand, the Tanzania Postal Corporation serves the customer more freely as the customer wishes. He said TPC has used a lot of resources to educate Tanzanians and they have gained expertise so they are given the responsibilities of serving the people using the skills they have acquired.