PRESIDENT Hussein Ali Mwinyi has continued to woo investors to Zanzibar pointing out that the Clove Island is an ideal place for traders to do business without any interference. The President made the revelation on Tuesday, while meeting with leaders of the ‘Khoja Shia Ithna Ashir Jamaats of Africa’ Community in the Island, adding that they should give preference for investment and business. The Community entourage led by its Chairman, Alhaj Shabir Najafi from Uganda, is a renowned faith based community with many members being Asian descends operate many business premises in several countries. In the meeting, President Mwinyi informed them that his government welcomes them to come enmasse for business and investment especially for the economic growth of the Isles. “We are inviting you to invest and do business here. Take the advantage of the available opportunities which include friendly policies,” Dr Mwinyi said, adding that the government has been improving the investment environment in efforts to boost the economy and bring development to the people. He further said that Zanzibar is now more focused on the blue economy for its future economic growth, adding that the Shia Community is invited to look into areas to invest. According to the press release from the State House, Dr Mwinyi commended the ‘Khoja Shia Ithna Ashir Jamaats of African Community’ for its efforts in supporting the improvement of basic services citing them as health, water and education among others in the country. On his part, Alhaj Najaf thanked President Mwinyi for his invitation to invest and trade in Zanzibar, promising to mobilize his members to exploit the opportunity, adding: “We are willing to continue supporting development projects in Zanzibar.” Earlier, the Vice Chairman of the Community Mr Aunali Khalfan who is a resident of Zanzibar, on behalf of the community, congratulated President Mwinyi for being elected President with a landslide victory. In Tanzania, the community was established in 1946 and registered in 1960 through its sub-community ‘Bilal Muslim Mission’ and stated its commitment to assist communities in Unguja and Pemba by providing them with water, health, education services as well as empowering women entrepreneurs especi