THREE days before marking the International Women’s Day, I realised the excitement my female friends were showing and discussing that women deserve praise and assistance as normally marked every March 8 annually. The discussion then generated to highlighting some powerful women leaders, who have shown the world that women can also deliver just as men, especially given opportunities and judged on merit. The case study then nosedived to our country of Tanzania, where the Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, being a female, has been balancing well her government and family duties to the extent she excels in all. Going outside Tanzania, the discussion took us to Liberia, where former President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, being a lady from 2006-2018 lit the women candle as the first woman to be elected Head of State in the Africa. With all appreciating and seeing the leadership of women as role model for girls, a Nigerian economist and international development expert Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was mentioned as the first African woman to be appointed Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). To Germany outside the continent, Angela Merkel, another female leader became the first female Chancellor of Germany in 2005 and still remains the de factor leader of Europe, leading the region’s largest economy and steering the country through financial crisis and back to growth. To the United States, Kamala Harris, another female star, became the first woman in America’s history to be elected as the Vice-President in 2020. Traced to India beating racism, became the first African-American and first woman to serve as California’s attorney general. Talk of Oprah Gail Winfrey, an American talk show host, television producer, actress, author, and philanthropist, who is a successful lady and has made herself a name for 25 years in the media and business empires, you will realise that women can also deliver without necessarily getting any support. The list might be long and might also tempt one to ask, why women most endure and succeed in balancing family requirements and office duties without failing. One can also ask how do women handle themselves? The immediate answer is that women excel in endurance and determination in comparison to men. To shed light on endurance, there is a joke circulating in the social media that a woman (biologically) can stay for long without eating or drinking anything in comparison to a man. But in reality, there is a message in it that a woman has the ability to compromise to a hard situation until it is addressed. In other words I can call it persistence and no matter how bad a situation is, she can bear with it. From a little research I conducted in the Internet, I realised that globally men lead in committing suicide than women. But, what do you think could be the reason? They can’t endure and handle tough and challenging situations like women? Imagine a woman who has been abandoned by her husband and expected to take care of the children, run the family as usual and before she settles to think of what to do, her in-laws want her to leave the family house and all property she acquired in the marriage. Or imagine a little girl who has been impregnated and her studies stopped and being forced to marry a man she knows nothing about, simply because dowry is displayed and she must be ‘sold’. The list might be long and pointed out that women tend to be patient, enduring and become determined to reach their goals and that school of thought was also supported by several people, both ladies and men I interviewed. A case study was a lady, Mary Chumbow from USA, who thereafter said: “Women tend to balance well family, work, challenges and society expectations to the extent that they meet all the demands in comparison to men.” According to Oliver Msangi, a Tanzanian, “I find myself as a married woman with three kids, I have to spend a lot of time raising the family and assisting the children to grow up as required and at the same time meet other societal expectations.” From Ivory Coast, Benedict Valcacel said: “Women can really do so much. For instance, we have women holding top positions in political and social hierarchies in Africa and other parts of the world or go straight and dig how the Queen of England ruled aged barely 8 years and served well.”