PRESIDENT John Magufuli’s approach on tackling Covid-19 has continued to attract experts and activists attention who see it as best solution that should be emulated by other African countries. The experts and activists have urged Tanzanians to put trust in alternative methods of treatment as the nation fights against Covid-19 since such methods have proved as a solution to the pandemic. Speaking during a public dialogue on African patriotism and Covid-19, the experts said the ongoing fight against the pandemic across the globe has posed challenges that need to be resolved by using various methods, including the application of local solutions. The dialogue was moderated by Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) Director-General, Dr Ayub Rioba. National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) Director-General Prof Yunus Mgaya said his organisation is currently conducting research on seven traditional medicines and that so far alternative methods have proved to be the best solution to the problem. He said three traditional medicines under study are for inhalation while four are for drinking. “NIMR is currently researching seven traditional medicines against the pandemic, our focus is on finding a solution against the problem on our own,” he said. Prof. Mgaya said “there is need for Tanzanians to trust and support the use of approved traditional medicines. He said China and India offer traditional medicine course in their medicine universities. “China and India value traditional medicines, they enroll students in their universities to take such courses; we need to value what we have,” he noted. According to Prof. Mgaya, Africa has been made a market for medicines from big pharmaceutical companies across the world. “They target Africa to sell their medicines, and today Tanzania is on news because of its stance, but we have our own solutions here,” he said. Commenting on the Covid-19 vaccines, Prof. Mgaya said the ongoing exercises in various countries could be simply considered as vaccine experiment. He said there at least four stages of developing a vaccine and that scientifically, the ongoing exercise shows that the process is still on the early stages. “What I am trying to say here is that the vaccine is on experimental stage, the last stage is marketing after publishing all experiments and showing clearly that all stages have been scientifically approved,” he noted. “It takes nearly 10 years to develop a vaccine because each stage takes at least 2 or 3 years, but today we see vaccines that have been developed within a year.” He said under such circumstances, no experts could give answers on the side effects of the vaccines and that there are no strong answers to the serious questions. Prof. Mgaya called upon Tanzanians to trust local solutions, saying traditional medicines are developed from plants and have been used for years in the country. “Let’s trust our local solutions in this battle. I can assure you that we are going to contain this pandemic; we managed in the first round, we are going to manage this as well,” he said. On his side, Pan Africanist Advocate Sabelo Sibanda from South Africa said Tanzania has set a good example that need to be emulated by other African countries. He said President John Magufuli has shown the world that local solutions could help end problems and that it is high time Africans follow the suit. “I am here because of my commitment to Africa and Tanzania. Whatever happens to Tanzania happens to me as well, we must ask ourselves what does Covid- 19 means to Africa,” he said. He asked Tanzanians and Africans in general to apply traditional medicine and promote local solutions in fighting the scourge. Advocate Sibanda said President Magufuli response to Covid- 19 and his hard questions on testing kits pose a challenge and promote critical thinking among Africans. He asked youth to use social media in a positive way by promoting Africa and Tanzania in general. “Whatever you do must add value to Tanzania and Africa, just ask yourself what you are doing to your nation,” he said. Moreover, Mr Roy Sarungi said the world is experiencing a lot of challenges regarding Covid-19 saying counterfeit and fake face mask, vaccines have been seized in various countries including 10 million N95 masks, which were seized in the US.