BARELY a day after some Kenyans raised their voices complaining of skyrocketing prices of maize due to decline in supply, Kenya has lifted the ban on imports of Tanzanian maize. With maize in hundreds of tonnes stranded in trucks at the Tanzanian borders with Kenya, the Kenyan government has reverted its blanket decision that was taken on March 5th, this year, against Tanzania and Uganda on pretext that the imported maize had high levels of aflatoxin. The Kenyan Ministry of Agriculture announced the ban lift yesterday although with strict conditions on exporters, saying the country was seeking to curb imports of maize that could cause cancer. It was reported yesterday that some Kenyans, particularly those living in the North Rift Valley areas were howling after effects of the ban started taking its heavy toll on them, with limited supply of the corn and higher prices due to the fact that Kenyan production in the 2020/2021 season was not promising. Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Lawrence Angolo read out a statement, noting that exporters must have a certificate of conformity indicating that the levels of aflatoxin comply with the maximum required levels of 10 parts per billion. The Kenyan government wants stakeholders dealing in maize imports to get registered and all traders issue details of their warehouses to help ensure that the maize supplied to Kenya observes all standard procedures on food handling, including the way the maize was dried. “While we strive to give Kenya safe food by addressing the challenge in the production system, we equally expect our trading partners to trade safe maize as per the East African Community (EAC) standards,” said Mr Angolo. Although the statement was read early enough, until yesterday evening status at the borders remained the same, with drivers and their assistants stranded along with their consignments waiting for what was said to be tests results of maize samples taken by Kenyan authorities to their laboratories. When contacted yesterday afternoon about the situation that has held back traders at the border since March 5th, this year, the Kilimanjaro Regional Customs Manager, Mr Edwin Iwato said they heard of the news but there was no change in the status and were still waiting for directives from Kenyan authorities at the border. Kenyan authorities did let Tanzanian drivers in but restricted them just within the Kenyan side of the border, denying them driving the lorries with the maize loads to destinations in different parts of the East African Community (EAC) member country. The drivers remained there, not knowing when the results would be brought and decisions taken. North Rift Valley residents still depend on getting supply of maize and other grain from nearby counties, although the price is not friendly at the time that they are already experiencing economic difficulties inflicted on them by the Covid-19 that led to some lockdowns and slowdown of economic activities. Millers in Kenya have since faulted the government over a blanket ban on maize imports from Uganda and Tanzania, arguing the move would have a serious implication on the price of flour, and it has since proved the same. They argued that the government should have only intercepted the maize that had high levels of aflatoxin and allow the ones that meet the set standards to be imported to the country. Tanzania Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Mr Hussein Bashe defended the quality of maize from Tanzania, as he was quoted as saying that every batch had a phytosanitary certificate that confirmed it was fit for human consumption before it was exported.