EVERY year on March 8th the world celebrates the Women’s International Day to remember and appreciate women’s contributions in caring and shaping the society. Women have played a greater role in the lives we have, as they take care of families no matter in good or bad situation in comparison to men. Women are kind and have greater love for everyone; they feel sympathy for someone’s life. In general, women are building a future that’s sustainable, peaceful, inclusive and equitable. Among others, women are hard workers, they feed their families and make sure their families lead a peaceful life and blessed with true love and helping spirit. To acknowledge the efforts and contributions made by women in today’s lives, every March 8th annually the world remembers the day to comfort them. In this article we recognize some few women who have played a great role in making sure the world remains a safe place to live and wherever women are, everything is possible. For instance, women who occupy top positions in leadership lead the society and the world in general to become a better position, let us take the case of Ethiopian President Ms Sahle-Work Zewde. Ms Sahle-Work Zewde among others has proved that women are capable and must not necessarily be uplifted to perform. Born in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in 1950, Sahle-Work studied in France and is fluent in English, French and Amharic – Ethiopia’s main language. She began her diplomatic career under the communist military regime in the late 1980s and did most of her duties in French-speaking countries. Her first appointment as a diplomat was in Senegal in 1989. Ms Sahle-Work Zewde then engaged in politics and was elected as president of Ethiopia by the country’s members of parliament in October 2018, becoming the first woman to hold such position in the country’s history. Ms Sahle-Work previously served as the UN Special Representative to the African Union and Ethiopian Ambassador to France, Senegal, Djibouti and Senegal, Mali, Cape Verde, Guinea Bissau, from 1989 to 1993. She has been described as Ethiopia’s first female head of state of the modern era, with some remembering Empress Zewditu who governed the country in the early part of the 20th Century. During her diplomatic career, she was head of the UN office to Kenya and the only second woman to be acted as Ethiopia’s ambassador. As the Permanent Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), she was then accredited to Tunisia and Morocco from 2002 to 2006. Sahle-Work subsequently held other high-level positions including Permanent Representative of Ethiopia to the African Union and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) and Director-General for African Affairs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia. Until 2011, Ms Sahle-Work served as Special Representative of United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Head of the United Nations Integrated Peace-building Office in the Central African Republic (BINUCA). In 2011, Ban appointed Sahle-Work as Director-General of the United Nations Office at Nairobi (UNON). Also, Sahle-Work, the Nairobi office became a more important UN hub for East and Central Africa, according to the 2012 Africa Yearbook. In June 2018, Secretary-General António Guterres, appointed Sahle-Work as his Special Representative to the African Union and Head of the United Nations Office to the African Union (UNOAU) at the level of Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations. She was the first woman to hold the post. In her first address to Parliament, Ms Sahle-Work stressed the importance of unity and promised to be a voice for women, also to promote gender equality rights. She believes that the gap is filled that women can grow and be selected to any position so as to have many entrepreneurs as women’s full and equal participation in the political and economic arena is fundamental to democracy and justice.