LAST Sunday, Tanzania joined the global community to commemorate the International Day of Mathematics, which is considered as the gate and key of science and technology. The day reminds us all that mathematics and statistics are essential tools for decision-makers in that they enable us to predict the evolution of a disease and optimize mitigation strategies with limited resources. Most countries in Africa and across the globe have recently declared mathematics to be ‘in crisis’, being rejected by students who consider the subject as boring. One of the aims of learning mathematics is to encourage learners become confident in using it to analyze and solve practical problems in real-life situations. Thus mathematics day is all about remembering what mathematics is for and in particular how it can be the basis of innovation for sustainable development. According to the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), the greater global awareness of mathematical sciences are vital to addressing challenges in areas such as artificial intelligence, climate change, energy and sustainable development, and to improving the quality of life in both the developed and the developing countries. Mathematics provides methods for organising and structuring knowledge so that when applied to technology, it allows scientists and engineers to produce systematic, reproducible, and transmittable knowledge. It is generally accepted that mathematics is not only important for acquiring academic qualifications but also preparing learners for the future because those who fail in the subject face learning difficulties in related courses in higher levels particularly science, engineering and other business-related courses. Where most students fail mathematics, implies that entry requirements of higher education institutions as credit passes which are basic for selection of students to study science, technology as well as courses such as accounting, economics, and finance will be lacking. This is a challenge for Tanzania and other countries to invest more and promote the study of mathematics or else the nation will lack skilled manpower in key areas of technology, health, engineering, agriculture and other related fields. Like many other sub-Saharan Africa countries, Tanzania students’ performance in mathematics is ranked below average in international assessments. There is, therefore, the need to put emphasis on building capacity in mathematics skills.