The Pangani river basin covers an area of 43,650km2 with 95 percent in Tanzania and 5 percent being in Kenya. The river begins as a series of small streams draining from Mt. Kilimanjaro, Mt Meru and the Pare and Usambara mountain ranges and flows into the Indian Ocean. Over three million people derive their livelihoods from the Pangani River Basin, primarily from agriculture and fisheries. Its fertile soils and ample rainfall have earned it the reputation of being the breadbasket of Tanzania. An estimated 55,000 hectares of the basin is intensely irrigated. The 500km long river also serves a series of hydro-electric power stations, which, combined, contribute towards 17% of Tanzania’s national electricity needs. Also the Pangani River is a major river of northeasternTanzania. It has two main sources: the Ruvu, which rises as Lumi at Kilimanjaro, passes through Lake Jipe, and empties into the Nyumba ya Mungu Reservoir, and the Kikuletwa, coming from the west and mainly fed by Mount Meru, which also enters into the Nyumba ya Mungu Reservoir. Just after leaving the reservoir the stream becomes the Pangani, which empties into the Indian Ocean at the coastal town of Pangani. For much of its length the river flows along the regional borders of Kilimanjaro Region and Manyara Region, before flowing into Tanga Region, which contains the 68 MW Pangani Power Station and the Pangani Falls Dam. There are several inhabited islands within the river, the river is full of crocodiles; hippopotami are scarcer in its lower parts. Climate change is evident in the Pangani Basin and flows have been reduced from several hundred to less than 40 m3 per second. As the model managed by the Pangani Basin Water Board indicates, different flow patterns are essential for maintaining the natural equilibrium of the river. Small floods, for WANI Case Study – Pangani River Basin. As a response to these serious issues, the Pangani Basin Water Board (PBWB) and Water and Nature Initiative (WANI) convened a stakeholder platform in 2002 to look at options for Integrated Water Resource Management. This type of management promotes coordinated development and management of water, land and related resources, in order to maximize the resultant economic and social welfare in an equitable manner without compromising the sustainability of vital ecosystems.