BENEFICIRIES of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) programmes were yesterday challenged to keep utilising technology and experience they got from Japan or other countries for the benefit of Tanzanians. The remarks were made by JICA Chief Representative Mr Yamamura Naofumi at the annual general meeting of the JICA Alumni Association of Tanzania (JATA). Mr Naofumi said that is the primary objective of JICA's training programme in which beneficiaries have now surpassed 4,500 Tanzanians. "I am delighted to note that since its formation, the association has continued to grow from strength to strength. It has not only conducted many activities including public relations seminars that enlightened the general public on the topical issues of the day, but also played a big role in further cementing the friendship between Japan and Tanzania," he said. Apart from JATA's activities, JICA is also assisting in other ways to further cement the relationships between Japan and Tanzania. For instance, he said JICA conducted the first online networking event which brought together JATA members, ABE Initiative ex-participants, and some representatives from the Japanese private sector. He further said JICA will continuously do whatever it takes to sustain the relations and the network that has been established for the mutual benefit of the Japanese and the Tanzanian people. JATA Chairperson, Ms Edna Ngerageza said JATA founded in 1984 is an association of Tanzanians, who had the opportunity to study or attend training courses in Japan or any other affiliated countries under sponsorship of the government of Japan through JICA. Ms Ngerageza said the primary objective of the association, among other things, is to provide a platform for alumni to enhance interaction and networking, to promote sharing of experience in the professions, not only amongst JATA but also within the society through various activities. A beneficiary, KPLT Enterprises Limited, Tanzania Director Mr Deogratius Kapalata who pursued a Master of Science in Agricultural Economics at the University of Tokyo said when he returned from Japan he directly commenced producing virgin coconut oil. "Throughout this time, I have acquired enough experience in producing virgin coconut oil, with this knowledge, I am ready and can partner with any company from Japan or any other country with interest in coconut oil production," he noted.