SIMBA Sports Club on Saturday played out to a scoreless draw with hosts El- Mer- rikh to consolidate their top position in Group A’s group stage of CAF Champions League. The clash held at the Al Hilal Stadium in Khartoum saw the Tanzanian visitors endure a frustrating day as they struggled to break down the Sudanese hosts, who record a first point in the pool but remain bottom of the log. Despite sharing the spoil from their yesterday’s away draw, Simba, are top with seven points – four clear of Al Ahly and AS Vita, who were expected to meet last night in Cairo. The draw helps Simba not to lose focus for their mission to progress further in the CAF Club tournament considering to the fact that they need three crucial points out of their three remaining matches to qualify for the money-spinning quarterfinals stage. The Mainland Champions will then host the Sudanese side at Benjamin Mkapa in Dar es Salaam in a return leg tie on March 16 .Merrikh suffered an early injury blow when defender Hamza Dawood suffered a knock and could not continue, leading to the introduction of Ramadan Ajab off the bench inside the opening quarter hour. Simba bossed possession but struggled to create scoring chances for the likes of Luis Miquissone, who since joining Simba from UD Songo, has never looked back and scored the all-important goal that downed Al Ahly in Dar es Salaam. The hosts threatened a goal against the run of play thanks to an excellent corner kick delivery from Ahdam Mohammad on the half hour mark which caused all kinds of panic in the visitors’ defence. The Mainland champions, despite the draw enjoyed more of the ball and were showing patience in trying to unpick the Red Devils’ defence, but lacked concentration. On resumption, Simba pressured for goals, but will have themselves to blame after Ivoarian roving defender, Pascal Wawa failed to connect home Cletus Chama’s free kick to the relief of goalkeeper Monged Abuzaid. Simba’s French coach, Didier Gomes made some changes to reinforce the squad. He brought out Zambian Larry Bwalya for Hassan Dilunga, Mohammed Hussein for Erasto Nyoni. Clatous Chama , whose creativity, agility and pace were key for Simba in previous matches, was called out for Francis Kahata. Since the start of the Champions League campaign, the Zambian has played a critical role especially against Plateau United and FC Platinum. Chris Mugalu also went out for Meddie Kagere.But the changes did not bring desired fruits for Simba, but managed to contain pressure of their opponents. At the end of the match, Simba enjoyed a ball possession of 58 percent. Kakolanya took the reign as fellow goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, who has kept two clean sheets against AS Vita and Al Ahly was rested for the reasons known by his coach. Meanwhile, Mamelodi Sundowns have taken a major step toward the CAF Champions League quarterfinals after they defeated hosts TP Mazembe 2-1 in Lubumbashi on Saturday afternoon. Goals from Peter Shalulile and Lyle Lakay saw the Brazilians move to nine points at the top of Group B.