ZANZIBAR President Hussein Mwinyi on Thursday swore-in three ministers, signaling completion of his cabinet formation, with the appointees pledging to work hard and diligently. Besides the newly appointed ministers, President Mwinyi also instated the February 10, 2021 appointed Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB) Commissioner Salum Yusuf Ali as chief overseer of the government's revenue collections. Taking oath of office at the Vuga-based State House were Minister of State in the First Vice-President's Office Dr Saada Mkuya Salum; Minister of Health, Social Welfare, Elders, Gender and Children Nassor Ahmed Mazrui; and Minister of Trade and Industrial Development Omar Said Shaaban. Both the three ministers entered the House of Representatives through the presidential appointment. While Dr Mkuya is from the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi, the major opposition ACT-Wazalendo's Mazrui and his counterpart in the trade portfolio have joined the government under the Government of National Unity (GNU) spirit. Speaking shortly after taking oath of office, all appointees pledged to work hard and diligently to meet the expectations of the islanders through delivery of exemplary services. "I will work diligently to support the first vice-president in fulfilling his office obligations," promised Dr Mkuya, a former finance and planning minister in the union government. She described hers as a crosscutting portfolio, which demands hard work and commitment, "My office deals with crosscutting issues—environment, HIV/AIDS, abusive drugs and even cruelty to women and children. We will strive to make Zanzibar a safe haven for all." Mr Mazrui who doubles as ACT-Wazalendo Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar) appreciated President Mwinyi's big trust on him, saying he had been entrusted with not only huge but also sensitive ministry. "This (health) ministry is not only huge but also sensitive to the lives of Zanzibaris. The country's future depends of the health of its citizens...I'm well prepared to improve the sector...the good thing is; even President Mwinyi (a medical doctor) is my stakeholder," said Mr Mazrui who also served in the first 2010—2015 GNU as minister of trade and industry. Mr Omar pledged to cooperate with all stakeholders to attract domestic and foreign investments in industrial production. "The success of the blue economy is subject to a thriving industrial sector...we will promote industries, which essentially use domestic raw materials," ACT-Wazalendo Legal Consultant and former Zanzibar Law Society (ZLS) President said. The new ZRB Commissioner said his is one key task—to collect revenues. "I have been entrusted with a sensitive institution, which attracts attention from every angle. I'm going to work thoughtfully to boost collections and plug all loopholes for any possible leakage," said Mr Salum. Dr Mwinyi first unveiled his cabinet on November 19, 2020 but reserved three posts, pending the formation of the GNU. At the time, the opposition ACT-Wazalendo had not made clear their position on the GNU. "I have reserved two ministries if they (opposition) would so wish...we are giving them the constitutional grace period," Dr Mwinyi had explained on the vacant ministries.