Tanzania Distilleries Limited, who are brewers of Konyagi beverage have decided to change the looking of its brand by posting a logo showing a woman with rising up hands as part of its recognition of efforts made by women in the country in the transformation of their lives. Konyagi is being used by people of all sexes and has for years remained with with its finest taste. Speaking to reporters at the launch of the logo held in Dar es Salaam, Konyagi brand manager Pamela Kikuli said that the changing of the logo goes hand in hand with the celebration of International Women’s Day, that is being celebrated every March 8 globally. “ We recognize a continued efforts by women of this country to participate in day to day activities in their move to transform their lives in all corners of life,” said Kikuli. She said that women have in recent years been major contributors of the country’s economy as several others are owning mega companies, apart from their formal an unformal involvement in other development activities for the making of the country’s economy.  And to support that women’s moves, Konyagi has decided to change the logo of its bottle to portray a woman’s image of bravery. She added that what has changed is just the brand looking, from an earlier logo of a ‘man rising up hands’ to the current logo of a woman with rising hands supported by a message wishing all women in Tanzania a happy International Women’s Day.. “The Konyagi drink has not changed , even its finest taste remains the same,” “But what we did is just to change its looking in other way of recognizing women’s effort to encourage them in their moves of life,” “I therefore urge our consumers to continue using the drink without worries  to enjoy the unique and high quality bevarge,”  said Kikuli. Pamela added that Konyagi is a Gin-based drink that was first brewed in 1977 and that its taste is the same , but they have changed  the appearance only. And in the marking of International Women’s Day, the finest drink has decided to recognize 100 local women in the country for their tiressly efforts to transform their lives and stand as role models for others According to Ms Kikuli, among those recognized are Esther Maongezo, who is an East Africa TV & Radio presenter and Angellah Karashani, who is working as Media and Entertainment consultant. The duo attended East Africa TV and Radio’s popular program called  Friday Night to speak about their experience and life struggle to impose a lesson to other women. The were also awarded token prizes from Konyagi. During the Friday Night Show that is sponsored by Konyagi, Ms Karashani said that women are currently daring to do tough jobs like mechanics and even driving which were previously thought to be done by men only. She also hailed Konyagi for supporting women’s initiatives by recognizing their efforts to encourage others stepping into right direction. Others who were recognized include Hellen Kazimoto (Music festivals organisers), Leah Mollel ( a founder of Starshine TV), Mwanaidi Msuya, alias DJ Sweet Lady) – DJ and Rachel Pallangyo, who is a referee officiating at the Mainland Premier League  (VPL). Pamela Kikuli, who is Konyagi’s brand manager said that the changing of the logo has absolutely not affected the taste of the drink that has for years been celebrated by millions of Tanzanians, assuring the ‘drink lovers’ to enjoy the same taste they used to celebrate. The International Women's Day is being celebrated on March 8 of each year. The day began to be celebrated on March 8, 1975 after the United Nations approved this day to serve as an official day to remind the world of women's rights.