TWO people, including prominent businessman Ndama Hussein, alias "Mtoto wa Ng'ombe," and a Botswana national appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam on Thursday facing six fraud and money laundering charges in a deal involving minerals worth 345m/-. He was charged alongside Yusuph Hussein with forging different documents, obtaining money by false pretences and money laundering. The two accused persons were not allowed to enter plea to the charges because the case against them falls under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. Senior Resident Magistrate in Charge, Godfrey Isaya informed the accused persons that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail as money laundering charge they are facing is not bailable under the law. Under the circumstances, the case was adjourned to March 18, 2021, for mention. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution led by Senior State Attorneys Christopher Msigwa and Wankyo Simon, have not been completed. Prosecuting, the trial attorneys told the court that on or before January 21, 2020 in Dar es Salaam, with intent to defraud, the two accused persons forged Safe Keeping Receipt purporting to show that Lockfort Security Company Limited received and stored 100kg of raw gold from Samwel Kabula. The court heard that on or before March 5, 2020 in the city, the accused persons made a false Sale and Purchase Agreement between Cozac Logistics International Company Limited, a Tanzanian Company and Innovative Perspective, a Botswana Company. It is alleged that the accused persons purported to show that Cozac Logistics company contracted to supply 500kg of gold bars to Innovative Perspective (Pty) Limited for a price of 27,000 US dollars per kilogramme, while it was untrue. It is alleged that on the same date and place, with intent to defraud, the duo made a false Transactions Guarantee for 450kg of gold bars, purporting that Cozac Logistics International Company Limited undertakes to sell the gold in question to Innovative Perspectives Limited, a fact they knew to be false. The court head that on or before September 18, 2020 in the city, with intent to defraud, the accused made a false Gold Identification and Purity Testing Report, purportedly showing that Southern and Eastern African Mineral Centre issued the same to Now Import and Exports [Pty) Limited. According to the prosecution, the latter company allegedly certified that 60kg of gold bars tested and contained 97.24  to 97.71 per cent gold purity, a fact which was not true. It is further alleged that between January 1, 2020 and February 12, 2021 within the commercial city of Dar es Salaam, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, Ndama and Hassan obtained 150,000 US dollars from Emanuel Motilhatlhedi, the representative of Innovative Perspective (Pty) Limited. The prosecution told the court that the two accused persons pretended to show that they would supply 500kg of gold bars, a fact they knew to be false. The two accused persons were also charged with money laundering. Trial attorneys alleged that within the same period in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the accused persons acquired the money amounting to 150,000 US dollars while they knew that at the time of receipt, the amount was proceeds of a predicate offence of forgery.