ZANZIBAR joined the rest of the world to mark the ‘International Women’s Day (IWD) on Monday to reflect on what can be done to tackle the challenges that hold them back. Different events were held here to celebrate the day including discussions on social, economic, cultural and political achievement of women. According to the UN Women, the theme celebrates the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. It is also aligned with the priority theme of the 65th session of the Commission on the Status of Women, “Women’s full and effective participation and decision-making in public life, as well as the elimination of violence, for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls.” Women stand at the front lines of the Covid- 19 crisis, as health care workers, caregivers, innovators, community organisers and as some of the most exemplary and effective national leaders in combating the pandemic. Ms Fatma Haji Juma, a politician, says there is a lot to be done so that women are free from abuse and poverty. “As we fight for our rights, government’s support is crucial through women’s economic empowerment and giving special attention to girls and adolescents,” she says. Ms Juma is among women in Marumbi village, Unguja Central District who admitted that they did not know about the IWD until after they were asked by journalists. “If you talk about leadership, most of us are leaders at family level. Most of us are either widows or divorced, therefore managing children and other responsibilities at home,” Ms Juma who works as seaweed farmer said. She was also a leader of ‘seaweed farmers group of Marumbi village’ for five years, but the group couldn’t survive because its members failed to contribute the annual fee and also support to run the office. “We are faced with multiple challenges attributed to low price of seaweed, lack of reliable market, low products attributed to lack of morale, and lack of value chain,” she said her leadership role for the 55 members seaweed growers failed because of unfavourable working environment. Zanzibar Ministry of Health, Social welfare, Elders, Gender and Children affairs (through Women department) organised different meetings to discuss women success and challenges in different fields including entrepreneurs, farming, and social work, but the ‘women in leadership and participation in decision-making bodies’ was the main in many forums to celebrate. The meetings including on the climax Day (March 8, 2021) were attended by different stakeholders [journalists, health workers, women rights activists, and politicians] who said that more efforts should be taken to promote women. The director, Women department Ms Nasima Choum urged journalists to use their knowledge and tools to promote women. In another event activists were joined by the Minister for Information, Youth, Culture, and Sports Ms Tabia Maulid Mwita to challenge women in leadership to come up with better plans that will inspire other women to follow their footsteps. The training was organised by Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA)-Zanzibar in collaboration with Zanzibar Female Lawyer Association (ZAFELA) and Pemba Environmental, Gender and Advocacy Organisation (PEGAO) through ‘Strengthening Women in Leadership Project (SWIL)’ under the sponsorship of Norwegian embassy in Tanzania. “We women leaders should be close to our fellow at all levels and also support those who want to become leaders in future. Never give up,” Ms Mwita said as she urged journalists to use the training effectively including unveiling and documenting challenges that thwart women’s development in the society and promote women leadership. It has been observed in different studies few women in leadership role hampers their development as they do not take part in decision making bodies and groups, and that the best way to empower them is to give women opportunities for leadership. Ms Asha Suleiman- wife of the retired Second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali says that although Zanzibar government with support from development partners and NGOs has made efforts to promote women, much need to be done particularly in rural areas.