YOUNG Africans let another big opportunity ‘slip’ in the Mainland Premier League as they were held to another frustrating 1-1 draw away to Polisi Tanzania at Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium in Arusha. After a recent 2-1 defeat to Tanga based Coastal Union, the former Mainland champions returned to action, looking for a victory that would push them far from their close challengers, traditional rivals, Simba Sports Club. Yanga, after a 1-all draw remain on top of the league table with 50 points from 23 matches, but their consecutive draws favour most Simba who just need five points from their current 45 points from 19 league matches they played so far to share the lead. Simba may even go beyond should they squarely level with the number of matches played by Yanga. Pius Buswita spoiled the day for Yanga as he scored an equaliser in the 90th minute to change the mood of Jangwani players in the changing room. The levelling brought up celebrations to 10-man Polisi, after their experienced defender, Kelvin Yondani, who previously played for Yanga was red carded few minutes back. Yondani’s out going was likely a blow for Polisi but instead of they fought hard for an equaliser. Polisi have now garnered 29 points from 22 matches, but remaining at the eighth position. The club’s head coach, Burundian Cedric Kaze was probably very disappointed from an unexpected wee-hours’ draw, as he expected a relief after a previous defeat. In their previous series of draws, they drew 1-1 with Tanzania Prisons and repeated the same with Mbeya City. And later drew 3-3 with Kagera Sugar, Before succumbing to a 2-1 defeat by Coastal Union. In their today match, Yanga scored the opener through Fiston Abdulrazak three minutes to half time, Both goals came after either sides missing some clear chances in both halves. In another development, Gwambina beat Mtibwa Sugar 2-0 at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro. The win has therefore moved Gwambina three spaces up to the ninth position with 29 points, leap frogging Namungo, Tanzania Prisons and Coastal Uniuon, who were held to a scoreless draw with visiting KMC at their Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. Each of the trio had 27 points.