FOREST and honeybee stakeholders have resolved to invest heavily in the sector in order to improve the value chain and use of the products. The stakeholders agreed together to invest heavily in research, modern factories, value addition, tree planting and a number of works so as to bring transformation of the sectors. Presenting the resolutions during the official closing of an International Scientific Conference on Forest and Honeybee Products Value Chain for Sustainable Livelihoods and Industrial Economy held in Dar es Salaam recently, the chairman of the conference’s organising committee Dr Sima Bakengesa said in order to achieve the plans, the stakeholders have agreed to put more effort to support value chain development in forest and honey products. She said that stakeholders have learnt that, forest and beekeeping has not been effectively utilised, while the sector is important in contributing to the income of an individual and national in general. “They also recommended that, forest should be protected from the ward level, and encourage the use alternative energy. They also proposed formulation of guidelines for sustainable use of woods,” Dr Bakengesa said. The participants also recommended the availability of correct electronic statistics, formalisation of forest and honeybee resources and put in place a proper system for disseminating information on forest and honeybee products. Tanzania Forests Research Institute (TAFO RI) Acting Director General Dr Revocatus Mushumbusi, said the conference has been productive as it brought together scientists, decision-makers, development partners, diplomatic community, innovators, business community and practitioners from Tanzania, Kenya, Sudan and Finland. During the meeting, the government launched two 10- year master plans for beekeeping and forest sectors, designed to unlock Tanzania’s potential in honey and timber production, processing and export. Tanzania Forest Service Chief Executive O fficer Prof Dos Santos Silayo said the institution in collaboration with various stakeholders is well prepared to increase production of value added forest and honey-bee products. He said TFS will continue to plant more trees and fight deforestation as the country is currently witnessing environmental burdens due to excessive tree cutting. Prof Silayo added: “If our forests are well protected, will bring a number of positive impacts while also benefiting the current and future generations, so every person has a role to ensure that there is no forest cutting, burning and harvesting without having permission from the government.” The three-day conference was organised by Forestry and Value Chains Development programme (FO RVAC) in cooperation with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and Tanzania Forestry Research Institute (TAFO RI). It aims at providing a platform for sharing knowledge and promotes discussions on how to develop forest and honeybee products value chains for transforming the nation into a middle-income country.