MOURNING President Samia Suluhu Hassan has paid a glowing tribute to the fallen iconic leader Dr John Magufuli, saying he prepared well his successors. President Samia assured the nation that the country remains in safe hands under her leadership. Addressing mourners during the state funeral for Dr Magufuli at Dodoma’s Jamhuri Stadium, President Samia said the late Head of State had mentored her adequately to accomplish all the wishes that he had in mind for the country. “He made strong mentorship to all of us in the government before his surprise demise and I want to assure the nation that I am now competent enough to implement the wishes he had with the same vigour, zeal and pace,’’ she told the nation. The president said the country and Africa has lost a great leader, patriotic, God-fearing, pro-poor and true Pan-Africanist who dedicated his life to develop his country and lift the lives of his people. Mama Samia said yesterday was another sad day in the history of the country and the most difficult for her personally, recalling how difficult it was to announce the death of President Magufuli last Wednesday. “In front of me and in front of you lies the body of our loved President John Pombe Magufuli, with whom we used to see occupying the same seat that I am now occupying and who used to stand before this same podium. “Death is a big secret in the life of a human being, it is true that all of us will one day return to our creator, but we never saw or expected this sudden loss of our president, especially during this difficult period, we’re overburden by his demise, it is very difficult to withstand this big loss,” she mourned. “The late President Magufuli was loved by many, this is vindicated by the big turn up of leaders from different countries, as well as regional and continental bodies, who have come to join hands with us as we say goodbye to our late leader. We’re very grateful to you all.” The former vice-president recalled her last conversation with Dr Magufuli, who passed on at the age of 61, on March 17, this year in Dar es Salaam from a heart disease he had battled for over a decade. “As I said earlier today is a very sad day for me, I am overwhelmed by grief and great sadness, because I have lost a leader and my patron, but I am grateful I had the opportunity to talk to him a few days before his death. “When I informed him that I was going to a tour in Tanga Region, he told me that Samia you shouldn’t be worried, I am progressing well, go and inspect the implementation of the CCM manifesto as we pledged to the citizens, pass my greetings to them, tell them I love them so much,” disclosed Ms Samia. “These were his last words to me, I never knew those words would be his goodbye to me and the Tanzanians, I never knew I won’t receive his phone call again,” grieved President Samia. Ms Samia said while Dr Magufuli’s death was a huge loss to Tanzanians, nothing would go wrong in his absence, insisting there was no cause for alarm. She insisted the country remains strong under her, and vowed to implement all projects initiated by her predecessor Dr Magufuli as planned. “For those of you doubting that this woman will be able to be the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, I want to tell you that standing right here is the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, who is biologically a woman.” “I want to reiterate that I am hardworking and confident to serve you, therefore, be assured that I will deliver to your expectations,” she stressed, assuring the international community that Tanzania was still intact with every nation and will continue extending her bilateral ties with them. At this point she again paid tribute to her predecessor Dr Magufuli for having given her an exposure when he was sending her to represent him in different international occasions where she obtained enough diplomatic experience worldwide. President Samia said Dr Magufuli, throughout his presidency, mentored his aides and showed the best way to lead the nation and serve the citizens. The president assured Tanzanians that in collaboration with her Zanzibar counterpart, Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi, they will work hard towards attaining the country’s economic development as per her predecessor’s vision.