WOMEN journalists have been reminded to be confident in carrying out their duties, at the same adhering to journalism ethics. The call was made by Tanzania Media Women’s Association (TAMWA) founders in Dar es Salaam yesterday as part of marking the International Women’s Day (IWD). “It is equally important for both women and male journalists to support each other, especially encouraging juniors just entering the industry. It’s incredibly important for us to support each other and I don’t mean in a happy-clappy way, but in a quite aggressive way,” said one of the founders, Rose Haji. Ms Haji said those who have been in the profession for quite long need to be able to compliment the younger ones, without forgetting to lift each other, strengthen each other and help each other that will make a massive difference. Another founder, Fatma Aloo, said TAMWA is voluntary organisation and was born when they did not have office space or financial capacity to run it. “When we started the association there was no computer or phone, communication was mostly done by letters but after 34 years TAMWA is still strong and we as founders continue to defend the rights of women and children,” she said. “My advice to new and young TAMWA members is to create a culture of reading various books to increase knowledge and not be afraid of anything as they have great potential in them to be able to do anything even if they do not have the money to achieve some of their goals,” she added. Another TAMWA founder, Leyla Sheikh, thanked the ‘Daily News’, on behalf of the founders, where the association was formed. The community accepted TAMWA and their vision, mission and goals. “We understood that without the community understanding our vision and policies and accepting them we would not have been able to take action. We prepared plays that were composed and written by the founders of TAMWA, the late Jamila Chipo and the actors and singers were members of TAMWA,” she explained. TAMWA is a non-profit, non-partisan, non-governmental and human rights organization founded and registered on 17th November 1987 under the Societies Ordinance Cap 337 of 1954 with the registration number (SO 6763). In 2004, the association complied with 2002, NGO Act of the United Republic of Tanzania. In 2007, TAMWA was also registered in Zanzibar TAMWA Zanzibar under Society Act No. 6 of 1995. It was established by 12 media women which are; Fatma Alloo, Edda Sanga, Leila Sheikh, Rose Haji, Ananilea Nkya, Valerie Msoka, Pili Mtambalike, Elizabeth Marealle, Rose Kalemera, Jamilla Chipo, Nellie Kidela and Halima Shariff. TAMWA Executive Director, Ms Rose Reuben, said in commemoration of the IWD this year, the association awarded the founders a token of gratitude, appreciation and recognition of their contribution to the establishment of the association. “The community and the media are grateful to these founders for their significant contribution to the enactment of various laws prohibiting sexual violence, including the killing of the elderly, female genital mutilation, beatings, early marriages and pregnancy,” she said. Some of the laws that were introduced as a result of the great influence of these founders include the Sexual Offences Special Provisions Act (SOSPA) of 1998. Other achievement recorded includes reduced cases of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). According to the 2005 Demographic Health Survey, FGM reduced from18 per cent 1995 to 15 per cent in 2005, advocacy for the amendment of the Law of Marriage Act (LMA) of I971 which allows marriage of the girl child below 18 years, a move which had led the governing promising to prepare a white paper on the law.