AHEAD of the International Women’s Day, the Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA) yesterday presented an award to the European Union (EU) Ambassador to Tanzania Manfredo Fanti to honour thirty years of EU’s support in advocating for women’s equality in Tanzania. “The EU is proud to have been recognised by the Tanzania Women’s Lawyer Association in our combined efforts in advocating for women’s rights in Tanzania. “As the European Union we stand in partnership and solidarity with women in Tanzania and support civil society to further improve women’s lives,” said EU envoy at his residence in Dar es Salaam, where he received the award. He added that “TAWLA has been our partner of several projects, recently strengthening the participation of women and youth in Tanzania. We can clearly see today that women are leading the way to a more equal future.” Advocating for women’s rights in regard to access to legal services has proven to empower generations of women and support the livelihoods of many people that depend on women in the household. “The relationship between TAWLA and the European Union and its Member States including Denmark, Sweden and Finland goes back a long way. TAWLA and its quest to ensure access to justice, especially for women and children in Tanzania, has always sought support from EU and they have been ready to give support both technically and financially for the past 30 years,” said TAWLA Chairperson, Lulu Ng’wanakilala. The EU supports women across its cooperation programmes. Gender is a cross-cutting theme and is addressed in all EU supported projects. With the EU Gender Action Plan, the EU will further step up its engagement for women in partnership with Tanzania, promoting women’s full participation and leadership in public life and in all different sectors of the society. The constitution of Tanzania provides for equal participation of women and men in all aspects of the political process. Historically in Tanzania, the women’s grassroots movements have pushed forward achievements by providing collective power. The EU promotes women empowerment and gender equality globally and also at home in Europe! One of its guiding principles is leading by example and fostering partnership with all stakeholders, CSOs, public authorities and women’s organisations.