“Mtoto pisi kali, Huyu Baba ni ATM, Mtoto Kisu haswa, Kijana ana Kibamia, Huyu ni maharage ya Mbeya, Dada kapigwa pasi.” THESE are some of the Kiswahili language negative narratives you may hear as you walk in some parts of Dar es Salaam suburbs like Sinza, Magomeni, Tabata, Kijitonyama, Mbagala and many others. The people around, especially the youth, have formulated such phrases and impart them into some people’s personalities without taking into consideration negative effects of using such words. Despite the respect which Manka (not her real name) commands in her community in Kinondoni area as a medical doctor, she is usually annoyed when she overhears young men refer to her as “Yule daktari aliyepigwa pasi”, which affects her image and personality before the entire public. It is under such background that Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP) organised an online meeting on Thursday this week to discuss how to end negative narratives in society to promote gender equality. TGNP Executive Director, Lilian Liundi talked on how negative words like “Mwanamme suruali”, “Uzee mwisho Chalinze”, ‘Danga” belittle men and women in the community, and called on the society to look for positive words which were used to promote development in society. “Availability of water in our neighbourhoods was prompted by efforts to lessen the burden of women walking long distances in search of this precious liquid, but in actual fact, availability of water was beneficial to everybody in the village, children, youth, men and the elderly alike” she says. Shakila Mayumana who moderated the meeting called on participants to investigate positive elements in society which help people to fight for gender equality in their areas, as a way of bringing about development. Negative narratives are the bad stories we tell ourselves about ourselves in social media, said Rose Reuben from Tanzania Media Women’s Association (TAMWA), calling for the need to play down hypercritical self talk that plays on a loop in people’s heads like “I’m not good enough” and confidently say “I can”. The advice of Rose was supported by Beatrice Lema from Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA), who insisted on the need to discourage negative narratives. “Practicing mindfulness and uplifting thoughts can help to change negative narratives that pop up when we are faced with difficulties,” she said. The online meeting was part of TGNP’s plans to celebrate the entire month of March in recognising and celebrating women’s achievements in combating unfriendly systems in various sectors. This includes setting strategies aimed at increasing the number of women in leadership positions in various sectors, which includes political and private sectors to ensure that Tanzania has a gender-equitable system. This month, TGNP is discussing the importance of valuing women’s contribution to society, and further highlighting the increase in unpaid work and strategising to reduce that workload for women. The aim is to increase dialogue in society on oral and non-constructive and productive statements on the well-being of women and the development of society, and to influence society to increase their participation in creating positive stories. Other events include a visit to media houses at national and social level from 5-30 March, 2021, and these visits are aimed at continuing to provide education to the community and to spark debates that will lead the community to take action towards positive change. TGNP in collaboration with Information and Knowledge Centers in 18 councils in 9 regions countrywide will also hold community-based celebrations to recognise and celebrate women who have brought change and development in their areas. Through this celebration, TGNP will be able to document and celebrate the heroic women at the community level from those councils, who will be introduced by the community members themselves. Those in the Information and Knowledge Centres will also be connected to the media at community level to be able to inform the public about their agenda to recognise and celebrate these women in order to encourage community members inside and outside their areas. In collaboration with the YFF Youth Forum, TGNP hopes to visit four universities in Dar es Salaam (University of Dar es Salaam, Mzumbe, Mwalimu Nyerere and IFM) to recognize and celebrate women’s leadership in the field. TGNP is set to attract young people to join this forum while in college, but also to establish such platforms in their communities to bring about change in the communities they come from. In this celebrations, these young people will have various messages that will reach the community through social media and various media outlets. IPU figures (2019) show that as of January 2019, female heads of state (Head of state) were 10 out of 152 presidents (6.6 per cent). The heads of government were 10 out of 193 (5.2 per cent). On the African side, there have been four women presidents, who are former Malawian president Joyce Hilda Banda (April 2012- May 2014), former Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf (January 2006-January 2018), former Mauritius president Ameenah Gurib -Fakim (June 2015- March 2018) and the current President of Ethiopia, Sahle-Work Zewde (October 2018 to date). By 2020, there was an average of 24.4 per cent women MPs in sub-Saharan Africa, which is an increase of 14.6 per cent since 1995. Despite efforts to ratify declarations and agreements, she says, women still face various challenges that hinder their development, especially their participation in decisionmaking positions. Wealth and gender disparities are increasing in developing countries with limited resources, knowledge and technology. Poor urban and rural women are increasingly being marginalised, seen as not part of society. Studies show that African countries lose about $105 million a year by not including women in the economy. Statistics also show that women make up more than 70 per cent of smallholder farmers who feed our country. Women in the informal sector are 51.1 per cent while men are 48.9 per cent, and similarly, only 20 per cent of women own land. Access to social services is still a challenge, especially for women, despite efforts to free a woman from walking long distances in search of water every day. Health care, especially reproductive health is still a challenge, as women are still dying in large numbers from maternal deaths, whereby among 100,000 women giving birth, 556 of them die of delivery complications. In education sector, girls still fail to attend classes due to lack of towels to protect themselves while on their menstruation period. If negative narratives are fought against in society, women shall be responsible at the decision-making levels, and automatically bring about gender equality in society.