Several world leaders including the United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson have sympathized with Tanzanians following the demise of President Dr John Magufuli. Late on Wednesday, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan announced President Magufuli the death of President Magufuli. The President was admitted at a local hospital in the country’s commercial capital of Dar es Salaam in March 2021 before being discharged the following day. A week later, his condition deteriorated and was rushed to Mzena Hospital, where he took his last breath. After the announcement went viral, many leaders took to social media to eulogise the fallen Magufuli. The UK Prime Minister tweeted “I’m sorry to hear that @MagufuliJP, President Magufuli has passed away. My thoughts are with his loved ones and the people of Tanzania.” Shortly after posting the tweet, UK Ambassador to Tanzania David Concar retweeted the post and wrote “My condolences to the people of Tanzania. President Magufuli's dedication to championing hard work and developing Tanzania’s infrastructure will long be remembered. My thoughts are with his loved ones and communities across Tanzania who will mourn his loss. May he rest in peace.” Meanwhile, Somalia President Mohammed Farmaajo wrote on his twitter account: “On behalf of the Government and the nation of Somalia, I would like to extend our heartfelt condolences to the United Republic of #Tanzania following the demise of President John Magufuli. We wish the nation and the Government patience and stability in this period of prayer and mourning.” Embassy of China through its official twitter handle tweeted; “We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of H.E. Dr. John Pombe Joseph Magufuli, President of Tanzania. President Magufuli is a visionary leader who has devoted his whole life to his nation and people. His contribution to the development of China-TZ relations will be remembered. “ African Development Bank (AfDB) President Akinwumi Adesina took to the social media describing Magufuli as “a very committed leader” who worked tirelessly for the development of Tanzania. “I am terribly saddened by the passing away of my very dear friend and brother, President John Magufuli of Tanzania. A very committed leader. He worked tirelessly for the development of Tanzania. I will greatly miss you and your drive and passion for Africa’s development. RIP,” the AfDB President tweeted. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro through his twitter handle sent his condolences following the demise of President Magufuli.