NGORONGORO Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) has initiated an interesting stone road technology on its 4.4km road stretch from Seneto Gate to the crater. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Aloyce Nzuki, toured the area and expressed his satisfaction with the implementation of the 2.6bn/- project. The stone technology makes roads friendly in mountainous and steep areas. Dr Nzuki, who was taken and briefed along the road by Deputy Conservation Commissioner (Corporate Services) Audax Bahweitima was also pleased to learn that NCAA employed local engineers and experts. With 19km wide and a surface of 264 square kilometres, Ngorongoro is the largest unbroken caldera in the world, which is not a lake. Its steep walls range from 400m to 610m. It provides for an incredible natural drama, as prey and predators graze and stalk their way around open grasslands, swamps and acacia woodland on the crater floor. It is such an impressive sight that, other vehicles aside, one will wonder whether one has descended into a wildlife paradise. Dr Nzuki commended NCAA for the innovation, saying the road would translate into the attraction of more tourists from in and outside the country. “I commend you for your innovative use of stone technology and we must thank the government for providing us with funds to construct this important road. I believe it will greatly help visitors come to visit Ngorongoro Crater considering that this area has steep slopes for tourists to view on their way to Ngorongoro Crater,” said Dr Nzuki. The PS directed the NCAA management to ensure the project was implemented and completed on time and had value for money. Commissioner Bahweitima told the PS that the road construction was part of NCAA’s strategy to improve its road infrastructure in its conserved park to have upgraded services. He noted that in implementing the project they made sure employment was offered to people who resided in Ngorongoro. Even production of raw materials such as stones is done by residents and raw materials are obtained within Karatu District in which NCA lies. This is in line with the government’s policy to ensure construction projects benefit Tanzanians. NCAA Senior Assistant Commissioner (Engineering Services) Daniel Chegere said the project would be accomplished on time. Established in 1959 as a multiple land use area, with wildlife coexisting with semi-nomadic Maasai pastoralists practising traditional livestock grazing, NCA includes spectacular Ngorongoro Crater.