THE front page headline “Dar demands lifting of Burundi sanctions” (Daily Blog, March 4), means that the Government of Tanzania is pushing the international community to lift sanctions imposed on Burundi as part of the efforts to remove trade barriers. In this particular case, Dar (Dar es Salaam), stands for the Government of Tanzania. The name of a city which is the seat of government can be used instead of the name of a country. Nairobi could be used to mean the Government of Kenya, for example. This is because the ‘green city in the sun’ is the seat of Government. In the case of Tanzania, should Dar continue to feature as the seat of government? It may be time for writers to change. The capital of Tanzania is Dodoma; in which case “Dar demands lifting of Burundi sanctions” should read “Dodoma demands lifting of Burundi sanctions.” The use of the verb “arraign” has been referred to before in this column. In a news item titled: “Two nabbed with 240m/= worth elephant tusks” (p. 2), a reporter hints at the fate of these two elephant tusks poachers: “The duo will be arraigned once the investigations are complete.” However, on page 8 of the same paper, in a news item titled: “Ngara residents assured of enough water supply,” the Deputy Minister for Water is reported to have given an order concerning those who sabotage water infrastructure: “I hereby direct Regional Police Commanders (RPCs) countrywide to take swift action and arraign the suspects before the court.” So, is it “to arraign the duo once investigations are complete?”, or “to arraign the suspects before the court”? The Macmillan English Dictionary for Advanced Learners defines “arraign” as: “to order someone to go to a court of law to be formally charged with a crime”. This means “arraign” is adequate on its own. If the writer was dead determined to have the word “court” appear, then he/she could opt for another verb with a different phrasing, such as: “get the suspects to appear before a court of law”. Still on the same page 8 we read something about Misungwi District which is said to be “on the right foot as budget is allocated.” Among others, the Misungwi District Executive Officer is reported to have said that councillors had strongly emphasised identification of new sources of ‘collecting’ revenue. Do you really need the word “collecting” in the above sentence? For, a source is defined as: “a person, place or thing that provides something you need or want”. You get, you collect (revenue) from a source. Therefore, the phrase “new sources of collecting revenue” may have one word too many. Councillors had strongly emphasised the identification of new sources of revenue. Once this is done, strategies on how it would be collected could be worked out. While one Deputy Minister is in Ngara District supervising water projects, another Deputy Minister, this time, one for Natural Resources and Tourism, is in Karagwe District, and is shown in a photograph carrying the following caption: “Karagwe District Commissioner, GM (left), briefs Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, MM on the challenges his people face when elephants invade their crops in Kitengule Ranch area in Karagwe District and ‘Kyerwa’ in Kagera Region”. The point is, we are told that Karagwe is a district but we are not told what Kyerwa is. To my knowledge, Kyerwa is also a district, albeit a relatively new one, carved out of Karagwe District. So, for the sake of completeness, the caption should reflect this, and read something like: “Karagwe District Commissioner, GM (left), briefs Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, MM on the challenges the people face when elephants invade their crops in the Kitengule Ranch area in Karagwe and Kyerwa Districts in Kagera Region”. Finally, what does WB stand for? According to the Good Citizen (March 4, p. 11), the acronym stands for Word Bank. But for many economic experts WB means the World Bank. lusuggakironde@gmail.com