GOVERNMENT has called upon local experts and other stakeholders responsible for negotiating investment contract to be more careful during the entire process to allow smooth implementation of the agreements for mutual benefits of the nation and investors. Minister of State in the President's Office (Investment) Prof Kitila Mkumbo said once the agreement is signed it should be respected by both parties and the investors should be left to do their work. He said that experts representing the government and other stakeholders should be vigilant during the process to allow investors to generate profit and the state to realise the anticipated benefits. Prof Mkumbo made these remarks yesterday at the launch of investment guidelines for Katavi Region aimed at providing crucial information to both local and foreign investors, including investment opportunities in the area. He said that while dealing with investors, experts should consider broad national interests so that they could sign a win-win situation contract between the government and investors. "Our local experts should be meticulous during the entire process because once the contract is signed it is difficult to make changes... it will be useless to raise concern when the contract had already been signed," Prof Mkumbo noted. He said that in order to promote investment in the country it is important for the government and other stakeholders to provide correct information about investment opportunities, identify investment areas and investment procedures. "When an investor has shown interest to invest in a certain area it means he is assured of doing business and make profit, thus as government   we should make sure that an investor has sufficient capital, the investment will generate employment and pay taxes to the central and local government," he said. He, however, noted that in addition to other responsibilities, civil servants have responsibility to support and facilitate investors to run their business in friendly environment. "This is very important for anyone who needs services from the government,” he said. He called upon civil servants and citizens in general to respect both local and foreign investors because their success in business will enable the government to provide basic services to its people. Katavi Regional Commissioner Mr Juma Homera said that the guidelines will not only promote his region, but also attract investors and improve investment climate in the region. He said the guidelines have been prepared with the aim of promoting investment opportunities in all district councils of Katavi region to attract both local and foreign investors. "Already several companies have showered interest of investing in our region including Kahama Oil Mills Group which is interested in sugar industry, Katavi Mining Co Ltd and Katavi Industrial Park, Safari Tours, Machunde Investment," he said. Commenting on agriculture, he said Katavi Region has more than 900,000 hectares of suitable land of which hectares 28,228 can be used for irrigation. He said currently the region produces 450,000 tonnes of maize, 268,000 cassava, 3,000 beans, more than 200,000 tonnes of sweet potatoes, 500,000 tonnes of paddy and 6,000 tonnes of sunflower and simsim.