A NON-GOVERNMENTAL organisation campaigning for female education, CAMFED, in collaboration with other stakeholders is set to reach out to at least 828,906 marginalized young women and students in four years time. The non-profit organization, whose mandate is to eradicate poverty in Africa through education of girls and empowering young women, has so far empowered over 360,000 girls in the past five years. Speaking here during the organisation’s annual general meeting and launch of the 2021-2025 Strategic Plan, CAMFED-Tanzania National Director Ms Lydia Wilbard said her organisation’s main focus was to see every child is protected, respected and valued in order to grow up turning the tide of poverty. “Our mission is to help tackle poverty and inequality by multiplying education opportunities for girls and empowering young women to become leaders of change,” she noted. Ms Wilbard noted that since its establishment in 2005, CAMFED-Tanzania has supported more than 683,439 children to attend schools, with a focus on marginalized girls at the secondary school level and 1,580 tertiary students were supported. According to her, in 2019, 316,196 secondary students were supported through the philanthropy of women leaders in the CAMFED. A total of 26,376 young women who have completed secondary school with CAMFED’S support have joined the Camfed Association of Women Leaders. Women under the association are provided with leadership and entrepreneurship training, and volunteer programmes. These initiatives help them build important skills and knowledge that empower them to improve future opportunities for themselves as well as their families and communities. Speaking when opening of the meeting, CAMFED Board of Directors Chairperson Ms Jeanne Ndyetabwe, said the organization was supporting young women, throughout their primary and secondary schools’ years, to economic training and further education, and onto leadership, as role models, activists and philanthropists. She noted that while it planned to reach out to 100,000 girls in the last five years, it surpassed the target by reaching 360,000 vulnerable girls in some 39 district councils in the nine regions where it operates. CAMFED operates in Morogoro, Dar es Salaam, Iringa, Tanga, Coast, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Tabora and Singida regions. She noted that the organization plans to empower at least 19,200 girls with entrepreneurial skills and link them with various stakeholders in efforts to get capital. “Our bursaries enable thousands of girls to attend secondary schools with interventions aimed at improving participation and learning among all children in partner schools.” she added. A CAMFED beneficiary from Chalinze in Coast Region, Eva John, said before entering the programme, she used to do casual jobs in efforts to buy school uniforms and books. Eva, who joined the programme while in Form One, added that after completion of secondary education, she got entrepreneurial training from CAMFED that had helped her start business. She currently owns three hectares of pineapple plantation, six hectares of paw paw plantation, a shop and supports 13 marginalized girls w