WILDLIFE Foundation of Tanzania—a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) in collaboration with the Tanzania Forest Services Authority (TFS) and Dodoma regional authorities is planning to plant about 6,000 trees in joint efforts to have the capital city green. The Director of the NGO, Rev Clement Matwiga, while addressing a news conference here said this year’s World Wildlife Day is scheduled to be commemorated at national level in Dodoma region today. World Wildlife Day will be celebrated in 2021 under the theme "Forests and Livelihoods: Sustaining People and Planet", as a way to highlight the central role of forests, forest species and ecosystem services in sustaining the livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people globally, and particularly of indigenous and local communities with historic ties to forested and forest-adjacent areas. This aligns with UN Sustainable Development Goals 1, 12, 13 and 15, and their wide-ranging commitments on alleviating poverty, ensuring sustainable use of resources and on conserving life land. This day will celebrate forest-based livelihoods and seek to promote forest and forest wildlife management practices that accommodate both human well-being and the long-term conservation of forests, and promote the value of traditional practices that contribute to establishing a more sustainable relationship with these crucial natural systems. According to Mr Matwiga, about 6,000 trees will be planted in different areas of the city, including Decca College located at Nala in the outskirt of the city, as well as at a place where Swaswa Primary school is expected to be constructed, as part of making Dodoma a greener city. He further named participants who will be engaging during the tree planting exercise today as the Prime Minister’s Office, religious leaders, primary school pupils, Decca College and other individuals. Global statistics depict that between 200 and 350 million people live within or adjacent to forested areas around the world, relying on the various ecosystem services provided by forest and forest species for their livelihoods and to cover their most basic needs, including food, shelter, energy and medicines. Roughly 28 per cent of the world’s land surface is currently managed by indigenous peoples, including some of the most ecologically intact forests on the planet. These spaces are not only central to their economic and personal well-being, but also to their cultural identities.