ON Monday next week, Tanzanian women will join the global community to celebrate International Women’s Day (IWD). On March 8 every year, the day is marked to recognise the breadth of achievements of women in every domain that contribute to a better society for everyone. This year’s theme of “We are strong: Women leading the fight against Covid-19’’, highlights the women’s frontline role and lessons learnt from the crisis management. Today Tanzania has many great women who overcame gender bias to have a profound impact in the country. In this country no woman has ever been denied an opportunity because of her gender, whether it’s access to health services, education, or the right to live in safety. This is important not only for the individual women involved, but also for Tanzania as a nation so that women’s contributions can assist in building a strong and more prosperous country. We don’t want to mention names of women who have excelled in leadership positions because the list is too long to warrant space here. What Tanzania boasts of nearly 60 years of independence is that collectively, each one of us has helped create a gender equal world. Individually, we’re all responsible for our own thoughts and actions – all day, every day. Together as a nation, we have helped forge a gender equal world for our women by celebrating their achievements, raising awareness against bias, and taking action for equality. We have chosen to challenge stereotypes, broaden perceptions, and improve situations for women. Tanzanian women have become more empowered to create a prosperous and secure nation. The race is on for a gender equal government, gender equal media coverage, gender equal workplaces, gender equal sports coverage, more gender equality in health and wealth. Gender-based inequalities are often rooted in cultural norms that permit and exacerbate patterns of discrimination against women within the family and in economic transactions. These discriminatory attitudes trump humanistic and moral considerations, creating and reinforcing inequality. Discrimination against women in resource ownership has far-reaching implications for their lives, their families, and society. It is imperative to combat this regressive practice to ensure a dignified life for all.