TWELVE trucks with maize load, weighing 216 tonnes from Tanzania has been denied entry into Kenya through Holili Border as drivers and their assistants remain stranded there. That follows a decision by the Kenya government, through an internal letter from Kenya’s Agriculture and Food Authority to the commissioner of customs at the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) stopping imports of maize into Kenya from Tanzania and Uganda with immediate effect. The situation at the border resembles the one in the past when truck drivers and their assistants were denied entry to Kenya due to Covid-19 issues, resulting in Tanzania taking the same action against Kenyan drivers until the matter was resolved several times by senior officials from the two countries. While Kenya was forcing Tanzanian drivers to take further Covid-19 tests at the borders even if they had certificates showing negative Covid-19 cases, this time round the Kenyan Government is claiming the maize have high levels of mycotoxins, particularly aflatoxins and fumonisins that are claimed to be casinogenic. Stranded as they have been for days now, the drivers said they were waiting for answers from Kenyan authorities after samples of maize were taken for testing by the country’s authorities that claim over the years, acute and chronic aflatoxin-related illness cases have been recorded, with some resulting in deaths. Kilimanjaro Regional Customs Manager, Mr Edwin Iwato, said at the border late on Monday that the Kenyan authorities denied the drivers to drive in the lorries with the maize loads since March 5th and did not know when the results would be brought and decisions taken. Mr Iwato unveiled that there have been some challenges in regard to maize trade and exports of the same, due to decision by their counterparts. “The loads weigh 216 tonnes; it comes from Tanzanian farmers and were meant to be exported to Kenya in normal business routines between our two countries. Now they are stranded here, waiting for procedures in taking the samples, transporting them for testing and bringing back results and decisions. We have 15 trucks so far here. We just wait for our counterparts in Kenya to accomplish what they decided to do in accordance with their procedures. It is actually a challenge that has emerged and has to a certain extent affected the maize business cycle here at the border,” said Mr Iwato. He noted that Tanzania government was working on the matter so as to solve the challenge and enable business on both sides to resume as usual. Some of maize traders seemed to be puzzled by Kenya’s decision that Tanzania’s maize had poisonous materials, saying they have been doing the business for more than 20 years without any complaints. Mr Zuberi Khamis said all the claims were unfounded. “We have been doing the business for many years, collaborating well with our counterparts in grain business without any problem. We are perplexed to hear today that maize from our country have levels of aflatoxins. It is not true, there is an ill will,” said Mr Khamis. Another trader, Mr Ramadhani Bakari said as Kenya refuses maize to be transported to different parts of Kenya, some businesspersons are making loss as too much time is spent on the border. “We ask our two governments to sit together and sort out this issue as quickly as possible so that we continue with our business as it was in the past. We have never heard of people dying in Kenya or Tanzania due to consumption of grain that have levels of aflatoxins,” said Mr Bakari. Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Mr Hussein Bashe who toured Namanga border over the weekend, was quoted as saying that the ministry was looking into the matter with seriousness and was waiting for a formal complaint from Kenya in accordance with procedures. Under Article 13 of the Customs Union Protocol, the EAC partner states have agreed to remove all existing nontariff barriers to trade and not to impose any new ones. Under Article 81 of the Treaty establishing the EAC, the partner states recognized the importance of standardization, quality assurance, metrology and testing for the promotion of trade and investment and consumer protection among other things.