IN Tanzania, land legal and institutional framework includes considerable provisions on gender issues that the majority regard as progressive. The government has done a considerable effort to ensure that the marginalised groups including women’s land rights are taken on board. The government has, for instance, taken a lead on land legal and institutional reform with considerable provisions of women’s land rights. The effort has significantly impacted on policy making process. Eventually both Land Act and Village Land Act 1999 contain provisions for both men and women rights in acquiring, holding, using and dealing with land under the same rules. These Acts have also ensured that women are represented in land administration and adjudication bodies, as a way to ensure that women can access land and maintain its access. Women’s access to land means their ability to use and benefit from land for themselves, their families and community at large- it may also imply land ownership at its highest level. Women’s maintain access to land on the other hand mean their ability to keep the land they use and benefit from the proceeds therein. The 1990s land legal and institutional reforms have strengthened gender equality and give more power to grassroots land institutions to ensure rural women maintain access to land. The grassroots land institutions include village council, village land council and village adjudication committee. In order to safeguard women land rights, there is legal requirement for women’s representation in all grassroots land institutions as it is stipulated in the village land act of 1999. For instance, a village land council’s functions include dealing with land related complaints from villagers and organising meetings for the hearing of disputes from those with land related complaints. Another function is ensuring that those with land related disputes arrive at a mutual agreement within its area of jurisdiction. Village land council is legally required to consist seven members, among which 3 members must be women. Despite these provisions, there are evidences that such grassroots land institutions are deep seated within the patriarchal power structure which sometimes undermines women ability to maintain access to land. This is because institutions which establish rules, norms and governance systems from which resources are managed are rooted in a patriarchal background. For instance, I made an interview with a woman in one village in Rufiji District and she confided in me that in some cases a woman who purchases land in her own name is considered rebellious from what the society is expected of her, especially, if she is married. She is seen as having evil purpose of running away from marriage. Such an attitude may influence grassroots land institutions decisions to women’s disadvantage in making claim to family land. And on the other hand discourage women from having an independent land from which she can use and benefit for herself her family and community at large. Similarly, marriage and inheritance are the main mechanisms from which a woman may access land in most rural societies in Tanzania. Yet, the laws of inheritance and succession, including codified customary laws remain untouched. This includes the Indian Succession Act of 1865 which codifies a gender-neutral English common law on succession. The Act states that two-thirds of the deceased’s property belongs to his/her sons and daughters. One-third belongs to the widows/widowers. If the deceased do not have children, one-half of the property belongs to the widows/widowers while the rest will be given to the deceased’s family. The Indian Succession Act of 1865 is still in place despite the progressive reforms on women’s property rights regime, especially the reforms in the Law of Marriage Act of 1971 and Mortgage Financing (special provision) Act of 2008 (amending the land Act of 1999). The Law of Marriage Act of 1971 recognizes married women’s rights to acquire, hold and dispose of property whether movable or immovable- (section 56) (Read, 1972:19). While the Mortgage Financing (special provision) Act of 2008 (amending the land Act of 1999) has added additional safeguards for spouses in mortgage context in order to protect women from discriminatory policies, when obtaining a lease or applying for credit and mortgages. Both laws however have an omission on women’s inheritance rights. The main assumption put forward before this is that a daughter will marry and be availed with her husband family land. And in case of a death of her husband, a married woman especially in some patrilineal communities, her late husband land is often controlled by her husband’s male relatives and sometimes chased out of the land her husband owned. On the other hand, in many rural areas of Tanzania, land is a major means of production and a key resource for livelihoods, identity and cultural integrity. It is argued that those who control the means of production such as land, tend to have more power than those who do not. Despite the fact that both men and women participate in agricultural activities, economic data, census information, research and time use studies show that women are more active in agriculture than men, specifically in food crop production and in the processing of agricultural products. They comprise more than 50 per cent of subsistence farmers. Many women however lack secure titles to the land they cultivate and have relatively little control and power of the proceeds, while some have relatively little decision making power over the use and management of the land that they cultivate. This is caused by the fact that 90 per cent of land governance in rural Tanzania follow customary law which is considered predominantly patriarchy and side-lined women with regards land access. The majority of women’s access to land in rural Tanzania depends on their stable relationship with men as wives, daughters, widows or mothers. As a result, women’s use of land is often limited to fulfil the interests of the land holders- mostly men. This causes a number of problems, some of which are the inability to grow permanent crops and benefit from them. In some experiences, women are allocated infertile land with low yields and far away from the village. Women can face these problems whether married, unmarried, widowed or divorced. All these render women more vulnerable to access land than men largely due to social legitimacy with regards to women’s access to land even when land legal and institutional framework permit. As we commemorate the international women’s day held today with a theme which goes Wanawake katika Uongozi: Chachu kufikia Dunia yenye Usawa, it reminds us that women take a leadership position in food crop production and in the processing of agricultural products, despite of the difficulties they are experiencing in land access due to a number of factors including patriarchy, lack of social legitimacy and omission of inheritance right in the current land legal and institutional framework. It is therefore important to take a heed that land legal and institutional framework especially these related to women’s land inheritance rights, be reviewed to enable women’s meaningful participation in agricultural sector for the enhanced agricultural production and productivity. There is also a need for a societal perception and attitude change regarding women’ access to land to enable a secure land access rights and be able to significantly contribute to agricultural sector. Rose George Mbezi PhD candidate writing on women’s access to land in the contemporary Rural Tanzania, University of Dar es Salaam.