‘SO Help Me God!’ prayed the newly sworn-in President Samia Suluhu Hassan before the Chief Justice Prof Ibrahim Juma --implying a greater degree of seriousness to face the big task of a stateswoman. Soon after taking the oath of office as the country is still covered with a heavy blanket of grief following the death of President John Magufuli on March 17 due to heart complications, Mama Samia offered an uplifting and healing message which rightly restored hopes in the midst of despair. “This is a time for consolation, showing love to one another, strengthening peace, unity and our brotherhood, honour our dignity and patriotism,” President Samia urged the nation. The new Commander-In- Chief appealed to all Tanzanians to stand together as they mourn the untimely demise of Dr Magufuli, assuring that nothing will go wrong as the country was blessed with capable leaders. “Our country is also gifted with good leaders with the solid foundations of national- ism, brotherhood, unity and tolerance and well-disciplined defence and security organs,” she said. In her brief inaugural speech to the nation, the new Head of State vowed to contin ue from where her predecessor left, especially completion of all strategic development projects. “I want to assure you that we are strong as a nation and we are well organized to make sure that we implement his vision and mission and build a Tanzania the late President Magufuli aspired to,” she said. President Samia lauded Dr Magufuli as a unique leader who never got tired of teaching and instructing on how the country should be governed and what should be done, adding that he had mentored her well. President Samia said that Dr Magufuli’s premature death was a huge loss to Tanzania and Africa in general, calling upon her fellow countrymen to be patient and bury their differences during this mourning period. Mama Samia, however, called upon Tanzanians to avoid divisions and strengthen national unity, especially at the moment when they mourn the death of their beloved leader. “It is not the time to look forward with doubt rather with hope and confidence ... It is not the time to look for the past rather the future ... It is not the time to point fingers at each other but to hold hands and move forward as we build our nation.” She said Tanzania remains a strong nation thanks to a good foundation built by the nation’s founding fathers; the late Julius Nyerere and Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume and those who succeeded them. According to Tanzania’s constitution, President Samia will serve out the remainder of the term of his predecessor, Dr Magufuli, who was first elected in 2015, and secured a second five-year term in polls in October, last year. The constitution also stipulates that after consultation with their party, the new president will propose a vicepresident, the choice to be confirmed by the votes of no fewer than 50 per cent of the National Assembly.