Switzerland has become the first European country to reject an application by AstraZeneca for regulatory approval. Meanwhile, half a dozen other European countries have now said that data on the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine so far is insufficient to permit its use among people over the age of 65 – with Belgium being the latest. “The data currently available do not point to a positive decision regarding benefits and risks,” said the Swissmedic press release explaining the thumbs down given to the AstraZeneca vaccine – regardless of age. “To obtain a conclusive assessment, the applicant will among other things have to submit additional efficacy data from a Phase III trial under way in North and South America, and these will have to be analysed,” said Swissmedic. Swiss Health Minister Alain Berset said that the regulatory decision would not crimp vaccine rollouts: “I think it does not affect the vaccination strategy” he said. Switzerland recently signed a contract with Moderna for an additional six million vaccine doses on top of the 4.5 million already purchased. Those, along with 3 million Pfizer vaccines would be enough to vaccinate almost every adult in the country. Switzerland also has pre-orders for another six million doses of vaccines by Novavax and five million doses from CureVac, whose vaccine is in late stage development, and the Swedish government. Nora Kronig of the Federal Office of Public Health said recent purchases would thus offset the decision on AstraZeneca. Still she was reluctant to commit to a timetable for the next phases of vaccine rollout, saying only: “We are reluctant to make predictions because that depends on various factors. What can be said is we are on track, with the new contracts we can achieve our goal by the end of summer.” Approval of the AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson vaccines depends on the quality of the documents still outstanding. It is thus difficult to predict the approval date. The rolling procedure means a decision can be made as soon as all the necessary information is available Contracts notwithstanding, Switzerland’s vaccine rollout so far has been lackluster – with only about 3.7% of the population inoculated, according to Bloomberg’s global vaccine tracker. That’s marginally more than the average for the 27-member EU, though a fraction of the UK’s 15%, and less than frontrunner Serbia, which is not an EU member. Switzerland got off to a relatively late January start to vaccines, while Pfizer and supply chain constraints have also been a factor, like elsewhere in Europe.