RECALLING childhood and school life memories with the late former President John Magufuli, nothing could heal the unbearable pain of the trauma as mourners paid last respects to their fallen hero yesterday. School mates, relatives, childhood friends and other comrades of Dr Magufuli burst into tears at the Magufuli grounds in Chato District, Geita region, where Tanzanians continued to pay their last respects ahead of the burial ceremony on Friday. It was a mix of sounds of cries—as his age mates, with whom the late statesman shared fond memories wept uncontrollably as they opened up on how they lived with Dr Magufuli when he was still a young boy at the village. A grief-stricken Hawa Ndalo (55), Magufuli’s primary schoolmate, described the late Dr Magufuli as her brother, who she had known since the 1970’s when they were all attending primary school at the village. “John and I were in the same primary school... he was standard seven when I was at standard three...I remember him for his attitude of defending juniors at the school. So his attitude of defending the oppressed, marginalised and neglected people started since his childhood,” Ms Ndalo said. During his presidency, Dr Magufuli was known for his stance of protecting the poor Tanzanians and he always wanted them to benefit from the abundant natural national resources. Growing with Dr Magufuli in the same village, Ms Ndalo remembered that Dr Magufuli was a mathematics wizard. “Sometimes he even criticised a teacher when doing mathematics calculations...he also liked playing football,” she explained. She described him as a hardworking man as she remembered the time when he was selling fish and milk in Chato after he completed university and was yet to be employed. “He was selling milk and he used to bring fish from Lake Victoria and sell them to people. He did not stay idle waiting for the white color job,” she explained. Ms Ndalo remained a neighbour to Dr Magufuli’s house, the departed President built after he had secured his first job. “John was very kind to his neighbours...he was not arrogant and he was always greeting his neighbours,” she said. Mzee Simon Petro Lagu (67), a relative of the late Dr Magufuli, described the former president as a hardworking family member, saying he was very determined and focused in his businesses. “I am overwhelmed by his sudden demise…this is unbearable, the sad news of his death has made me sick until today...he has left a big void in the family,” he said. Ahead of today’s burial ceremony for the late Tanzanian leader, accommodation facilities in the region are full, reports YOHANA SHIDA in Geita The ‘Daily News’ survey discovered that almost all high end, medium and low class facilities are fully booked, while people in need of accommodation keep trolling around seeking for the services. For a temporary solution to the crisis, Geita Regional Commissioner Eng Robert Gabriel has urged the residents to offer temporary accommodation to whomever in need during this state of emergency. The late Magufuli, who died in Dar es Salaam on March 17th this year, will be buried at the family gravesite here today. This is in fulfillment of Dr Magufuli’s will to be buried in his homestead.