PRESIDENT Hussein Ali Hassan Mwinyi has expressed a need for communications ministries of both sides of the Union to strengthen collaboration, a move that will help them share experience for the benefit of both sides of the Union. President Mwinyi gave the advice during a meeting with Minister for Information, Com munications and Technology of the Union government, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, who was on a familiarisation visit to Zanzibar after his appointment. “Strengthening cooperation is highly required so that Zanzibar can move faster in improving its information and communications technology sector,” noted Dr Mwinyi. President Mwinyi congratulated Dr Ndugulile and thanked him on his visit to Zanzibar while the minister promised to remain close to Zanzibar, and congratulated Dr Mwinyi on the landslide victory in the October 2020 general election. The Union Ministry responsible for information and communications technology was established on December 5, last year, by President John Magufuli in support of the country’s industrialisation and digital agenda. Before meeting President Mwinyi, Dr Ndugulile visited Pemba Island where he said ICT centres established in different parts of the United Republic of Tanzania should be utilised to serve people better at this time of global digitalisation. During his visit to Pemba, the minister told DCs and other government executives that the ICT centres were established more than a year ago, but they were still idle and not utilised, including providing internet education. This was Mr Ndugulile’s first visit to Zanzibar since his appointment. Dr Ndugulile pointed out that ICT centres would boost people’s understanding of different issues through communications, particularly among young people, and eliminate the existing communications gap in urban and rural areas. He said his tour of the Isles would cement the existing relationship between Zanzibar and the Union government. “I decided to visit some of the development projects we share in the Union to ensure there is smooth management. It is unacceptable to see that the ICT centres set up by the communications fund - four in Pemba and six in Unguja are not used. The aim is to provide better services to the community,” Dr Ndugulile said. He explained that 80 per cent of the country was connected through the optical fibre cable to facilitate communication through internet, urging institutions to utilise the centres in the provision of education and information sharing as planned. He said the optical fibre cable project was well planned as among the getways to development, stressing that governmental communications services should be improved by the use of ICT centres. In response to Dr Ndugulile’s concerns, Permanent Secretary in Zanzibar’s Ministry of Infrastructure, Communications and Transport Amour Hamil Bakar promised to ensure the ICT centres started working next week.