FLAGGING off a delegation TABWA (Tanzania Business Women Association), and several women entrepreneurs in Dar es Salaam to tour Saadani National Park to promote local tourism and show solidarity of women in business, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism Deputy Minister, Mary Masanja said women is a force to reckon with in any development sector in the country. Her school of thought comes from the background that women given their population and as a big workforce especially in the agricultural sector has made the country to make great achievements in the industrialisation dream that the fifth phase government is spearheading. As farmers, these people ensure food is on our tables, as mothers they balance time for families and office work that at the end of the day made James Aggrey (a Ghanaian scholar and teacher) say: “If you educate a man, you educate an individual. But if you educate a woman, you educate a nation.” Back to flagging off the delegation that was also sponsored by the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) that offers a package of investment benefits and incentives to both domestic and foreign investors to Saadani National Park, the women over the weekend clad in TABWA T-Shirt had a message ahead of the International Women’s Day that women are also in the steering wheel just like men in the development of the country and should be judged on merit in their places of work, and not otherwise. That comes at the background that tourism industry has a pivotal role to play in achieving the objectives at the heart of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in particular the commitments to gender equality and the empowerment of women of Sustainable Development Goal 5. As a specialised UN agency in the field of tourism, UNWTO (the World Tourism Organisation is the United Nations specialised agency entrusted with the promotion of responsible, sustainable and universally accessible tourism) that Tanzania measures to is committed to enhancing the positive impact of tourism development on women’s lives, and, in so doing, contributing to the achievement of the Fifth Sustainable Development Goal – “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.” Since 2007, UNWTO has been working – through its Ethics, Culture and Social Responsibility Department - in partnership with UN Women and a range of external partners across the globe, to bring gender issues to the forefront of the tourism sector, promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment and encouraging member states to mainstream gender issues in their respective tourism policies. Based on the findings and recommendations of the Global Report on Women in Tourism, Second Edition, UNWTO in collaboration with UN Women, the German Development Agency GIZ, World Bank Group and Amadeus has produced an Action Plan that contains a series of concrete actions for tourism stakeholders to take that would boost the sector’s empowering potential for women. Equally in most regions of the world, Tanzania for instance whose tourism industry is the second contributor after minerals in the Gross domestic product (GDP) has many women making up the majority in the tourism workforce, but concentrated in the lowest paid and lowest status jobs, prompting NGOs like TABWA with a pool of experts to think of how to pull them out if the quagmire. According to TABWA Chief Executive Officer, Noreen Mawalla women’s membership in their nonprofit organisation ensures they gain economic empowerment, advocacy, capacity building, access to financial services and providing an insight about marketing research and information among women, entrepreneurs and youth, traits which collectively make a women a force to reckon with at a place of work or in business. She narrated how TABWA has been heralding the voice among women who are in mission to unshackle themselves form financial slavery and gain access to various opportunities available in our society ecosystem, saying: “Our vision is to be a leading voice for promoting development and growth of women and youth enterprises and our mission is to function as an apex network and business organisation that promotes economic development for women and youth in Tanzania through. “Tourism has been proven to provide pathways to empowerment, and that the opportunity for tourism to make a difference in this area should be maximised. “Second, due to women’s concentration in lower status and lower paid jobs in tourism, their potential to contribute fully is currently untapped. Empowering women to participate fully in economic life is essential to building strong economies; creating more stable and just societies; achieving internationally agreed goals for development, sustainability and human rights; and improving the quality of life of women, and consequently, that of communities. For the tourism sector, the impact of greater gender equality and women’s empowerment would be highly beneficial, because diverse and gender equitable organisations perform better.” Their appeal was that Tanzania still has several natural tourists’ attraction sites worth investing in be it by a national or foreign, adding that TIC has all one wants in the investment. For those willing to venture in investing in the tourism industry, the TIC, a One Stop Agency of the Government of Tanzania established under the Tanzania Investment Act, No. 26 of 1997 is ready to promote, co-ordinate and facilitate their activities, because it supports measures that will enhance the investment climate in the country for both local and foreign investors.