TWIGA Minerals Corporation has handled over a 1.631bn/- cheque to Nyang’hwale Council as part of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and service levy contribution to the 2020/21 fiscal year. During the handover ceremony, Bulyanhulu Mining Acting Manager Zuwena Senkondo on behalf of Twiga Corporation explained that 1.265bn/- was for the implementation of CSR projects in the council and 366m/- was service levy contribution. She said that the money was dividend Twiga Corporation had been contributing after every six months and it was for July to December last year. “How perfectly Nyang’hwale Council has been utilising the money we give for social projects’ implementation encourages us to give more. Following the expansion of the corporation’s production, the dividend has also increased. We expect an increase in service levies’ contribution in the near future due to the corporation’s good perforamce,” she said. Nyang’hwale Council Director Mariam Chaurembo said the money from service levy was for areas – that is 40 per cent for development activities, 10 per cent for the youth, women and people with disabilities and the rest for miscellaneous uses. “In valuing development, 200m/- from the service levy money received has been set aside for the sector, 56m/- is for the youth, women and disabled and the rest is for miscellaneous uses, including purchasing a vehicle for primary education. The cheque handed over today is for the first batch and the council receives it twice a year,” said the director. Nyang’hwale District Commissioner Wilson Shimo expressed his gratitude to Twiga Corporation, affirming that almost 60 per cent of the projects in the district had been implemented using CSR and service levy funds. “It should be remembered that on January 24 last year, the government and Barrick Gold Corporation signed a cooperation contract, which led to the formation of Twiga Minerals Corporation Limited. The signing of the contract came after talks that started in 2017 and eventually it was agreed that Tanzania should own 16 per cent of shares from the newly formed Twiga Corporation and the profit should be equally shared (50 per cent each ),” he added.