Liverpool are on the brink of finalising a deal for RB Leipzig's talented French centre back Ibrahima Konate, according to reports. Jurgen Klopp has been dealing with a crisis at the back all season, with injuries to both Virgil van Dijk and Joe Gomez, but the Reds are making sure they have the strength-in-depth to cope in the future. And according to The Athletic, Liverpool have moved to boost their squad as they look to wrap up a deal for Konate - currently with France at the Under-21 European Championship - ahead of the summer transfer window. A move to bring the French youngster to Anfield is believed to be at an advanced stage, and Konate could leave for Merseyside at the soonest opportunity - which would prove invaluable given the Euros is on the horizon this summer. With Leipzig not in a position of having to sell, any buyer will reportedly have to pay Konate's release clause of £33million (€40m), rather than trying to negotiate a lower asking price. Leipzig, who sit second and four points off Bayern Munich in Bundesliga, are understood to be aware of interest in their centre back but if Liverpool choose to pay his release clause, no talks would be needed. The 21-year-old moved from French club Sochaux back in 2017 and has impressed in the heart of Leipzig's defence despite injuries limiting his game time. Konate has featured under 100 times for Leipzig but he has attracted plenty of interest from a number of European giants. And after gaining vital experience both in Bundesliga and the Champions League, Konate is expected to battle it out for a first-team spot straight away with the likes of Van Dijk and Gomez. But the Reds also see how valuable his signing could prove in the long run as they look to battle it out at the summit for years to come. Liverpool brought in both Ozan Kabak - on loan with an option to buy - and Ben Davies in January to ease their injury crisis at the back. But the Reds were always likely to bring in another centre back on a permanent deal in the summer following their problems this season. Both Fabinho and Jordan Henderson have been forced to fill in at centre back which has cost them dearly in midfield. And this lack of balance throughout the side has seen Klopp's men implode in the Premier League title race. After storming to their first ever Premier League title last season, the Reds are now in danger of missing out on European football altogether. The Anfield outfit currently sit seventh in the top-flight, five points off a rejuvenated Chelsea in fourth.