THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights has dismissed the application by murder convict, Evodius Rutechura, who had accused the United Republic of Tanzania of violating his rights under the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights during trial. Justices of the continental court ruled against Rutechura, the applicant, who is currently on death-row at Butimba Prison, having found that there were no violations of his rights under Articles 7(1) and 7(1)(c) of the African Charter. In his application, the applicant had challenged the decision of Court of Appeal of Tanzania, dismissing the application for leave to file review proceedings out of time; failing to provide him with free legal representation of his choice and by failing to properly assess the evidence relied upon to convict him. Deliberating on the issues complained of, the Court held that the manner in which the application for leave to file for review out of time was handled in the national courts did not disclose any manifest error or miscarriage of justice to require its intervention. The Court dismissed such allegation after noting that the Court of Appeal of Tanzania had dismissed his application in accordance with its Rules because, it did not demonstrate prospects of success. On the question of the applicant being denied free legal assistance of his choice in violation of the Charter, the African Court also found that Rutechura had been provided with free legal assistance. Furthermore, the Court held that the right to free legal assistance of one’s choosing is not absolute but rather, the important consideration that was effectively represented. Therefore, the Court dismissed such allegation because there was nothing on record to indicate that the Applicant was not effectively represented by the lawyers provided for him by the State. Furthermore, the court held that the applicant had not substantiated his claim. Regarding the complaint on the manner of the evaluation of evidence by the Court of Appeal was proper; the Court found that in assessing the probative value of the said evidence, the national courts followed the procedures in this regard according to the applicable laws. However, one justice of the court issued a Separate Opinion in which he discussed the need for the United Republic of Tanzania to gradually develop its laws towards the abolition of the death penalty in line with developing international practice. The applicant, who is at Butimba Central Prison in Mwanza, was sentenced to death by the High Court of Tanzania at Moshi on November 19, 2009 for murder. The death sentence was confirmed by the Court of Appeal, which is the highest Court in Tanzania, on September 13, 2012. He complained that the decision against him was based on manifest errors on the record, to the extent that the evidence regarding their Identification at the scene of the crime was not satisfactorily established due to the discrepancies among the prosecution witnesses. The applicant alleged also that during his trial there was non-compliance with some of the procedures, such as the procedure on Preliminary hearing as provided under Section 192(5) of the Criminal Procedure Act and that the prosecution had not called important witnesses.