ZANZIBAR President Hussein Mwinyi has called on members of the ‘special department’ to invest in sugarcane farming, to enable the Mahonda Sugar factory to have adequate raw materials it requires to boost production. Dr Mwinyi made the appeal when he visited the factory in Mahonda village, Unguja North Region, where he inspected sugar production before he held talks with the management, workers, farmers and representatives from the special department. Members of the special department include ‘National Service for Economy Growth (JKU); Prisons Wardens; Coast Guard/Anti- Smuggling Special Force- (KMKM); Volunteering Forces (KVZ); as well as Rescue and Fire Fighters Forces (KUZ). “If you use the manpower, agriculture inputs and other resources you have on the available land, you can increase sugarcane production for the factory,” Dr Mwinyi said. He added that the current state of agriculture in the forces was not in line with the actual capacity of the forces, urging them to increase production that would also boost their income level. President Mwinyi also promised that his government would address various challenges facing the factory, while urging the factory management to solve workers’ problems as soon as possible. He promised to look at the price of sugar as requested by the management. Dr Mwinyi also called on the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation, Natural Resources and Livestock to encourage cane farmers to use the irrigation scheme, so that the factory can get more raw materials. “Sugarcane cultivation is an opportunity to improve farmers’ welfare. People who put emphasis on sugarcane farming will be able to change their lives,” he said. The president also encouraged large scale farmers to come forward to support sugarcane farming. Commenting on grievances raised by factory workers, President Mwinyi ordered the management to address them immediately. The problems include working without contracts, low salaries and lack of working equipment. Minister for Trade and Industry Development, Mr Omar Said Shaaban, said the Ministry has been holding various meetings with the aim of finding solutions to the various challenges facing the factory including workers’ complaints. Earlier, Unguja North Regional Commissioner Ayoub Mohamed Mahamoud said his office has formed a special committee, aimed at finding solutions to the various challenges facing the factory, hence hampering sugar production. The Director of the Mahonda Sugar Factory, Mr Rahim Bhaloo, said co-operation between the ministry and the investor would be effective way to solve various problems facing the factory.