KILOMBERO market and bus station stakeholders in Arusha City have every reason to smile after the challenge of a toilet and bathroom was solved, thanks to the Netherlands’s non-profit international development organisation – SNV. The 16-room toilet and two bathrooms were handed over to Arusha District Commissioner(DC), Mr Kenani Kihongosi by SNV Country Wash Sector Leader, Mr Olivier Germain. The latter launched the facility, appealing to users from the market and bus station to safeguard it. Speaking before the launching ceremony, Project Consultant, Engineer Hezron Magambo said construction of the washroom, refurbishment of the old one and putting up a fence cost 54.4m/- and that SNV has been working in collaboration with the Arusha City Council. Construction and handing over of the facility is a huge relief to hundreds of traders at the busy city area, where there are petty traders, hawkers, daladala drivers and conductors as well as lorry drivers and their assistants. There used to be just a single toilet for both males and females, hence lack of privacy and dignity, causing long queues and disturbance. SNV has planned management of the facility, and to start with users will be paying just 200/- for single use as it is the case with some other facilities in the region. Some of the traders, however, requested the cost to be reduced so that everyone could afford to use it. They proposed 100/- and DC Kihongosi said they will consider the application and give them an answer later. Arusha City Lord Mayor, Mr Maxmillian Iranqhe called on traders and all users to safeguard the infrastructure and be exemplary to other towns. He also called upon the youth to exercise restraint in crime and treasure peace and security. Arusha City Executive Director, Dr John Pima hailed SNV for its support, saying there was a huge challenge because Kilombero's population is huge and people were in dire need for such a facility.  He said there are special services that females could get in the facility. DC Kihongosi pledged to traders, daladala and lorry operators to pay them a visit because he heard that there are many challenges in the area and that he was there to solve them. SNV thrives to make lasting difference in the lives of people living in poverty by helping them raise incomes and access basic services. Driven by the Sustainable Development Goals, SNV is dedicated to a society in which people are free to pursue their own sustainable development and no one is left behind.