AS Tanzania joins the rest of the world to commemorate International Women’s Day, sports fraternity in the country are happy to see the influx of women who are on the frontline fuelling for the development of this crucial sector. Previously, it was rare to see women taking driving seats in various sport disciplines especially in football as it was usually regarded as a male dominated event, but nowadays, things have made a U-turn upon seeing them doing good works in sports. Without beating around the bush, the name of Edna Lema ‘Mourhino’ is common among ears of many football fans in the country due to her acknowledgeable works she is doing both at national and club level. She currently doubles as the Assistant Coach for the national women’s football team ‘Twiga Stars’ and the Head Coach for Yanga Princess to make her an ideal ‘Super Woman’ worth to be recognised on this special day. As of now, the self proclaimed Mourhino is the only female coach in the country’s Serengeti Women’s Premier League and she is still in the right direction to guide her side to lift the title at the end of the season. In her previous exclusive interview in Dar es Salaam, she pointed out that she enjoys the game of football a lot and that is the main reason which drove her to venture into this beautiful game. “At first, it was difficult to cope because football was then regarded as a male sport only but lately, things have changed as more women are coming in to actively take part in football,” said she. Indeed, the football community is blessed to have a woman of Lema’s caliber and time has come to produce many of them so that the football discipline can fly high than ever before. Another Super Woman who is making it big in the world of football is Barbara Gonzalez who has succeeded to enter in the country’s football history books for becoming the first woman to work as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Simba Sports Club. She is the centre of attraction for many women out there not only here in Tanzania but worldwide basing on the fact that she is able to smoothly run a big club with many fans in the world. When her name was paraded as the club’s new CEO, eyebrows were raised as many people wondered whether she was the right person to take such position at a big club of Simba caliber but, as time goes, she has proved to be the ideal candidate for the job. Gonzalez is therefore one of many Super Women’s out there who are doing a great job in trying to uplift the status of football in the country and, undoubtedly, Simba is in good hands under her supervision. Another Super Woman worth to be celebrated today is Fatuma Omary who trade as KMC goalkeeper coach and on several occasions, she has been praised for the good job she does at the club. Fatuma is behind polishing one of the veteran shot stoppers in the country Juma Kaseja who is the team’s current first choice goalie hence, his trainer deserves to be given all the blessings. However, these are just few of many women who divert their time and energy to try to push for the enhancement of sports (football) in the country and their massive inputs will always be cherished forever.