AFTER stamping a big 3-0 win over Ihefu FC on Thursday, Azam have announced that they now want to consistently win their remaining league matches so that to be on the right track of fighting for the season’s title. The victory at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam saw them reaching 44 points from 24 games but remained unmoved from their third slot on the league table, a position they have occupied for an extended period of time. A brace from Idd Selemani and one goal by Ayoub Lyanga were enough to give the hosts a crucial triumph which came at the best time as the club want to continue being among key title contenders of the campaign. “For now, what we want to focus on is to make sure that we register consistent wins in order to keep alive our pledge we made at the start of the season that we are also thirsty with the championship. “It is true that our run in the contest has been inconsistent that is why we want to make a U-turn and begin producing a winning streak in most of the matches coming up,” said Azam’s Information Officer Thabit Zakaria. He added that they now work hard to make sure that their next match go in their favour saying that is the only guarantee which will easily make them attain their target. Moreover, Zakaria narrated that the team expect to regroup on Wednesday next week to resume preparations for the remaining matches of the league for the players who did not join their respective national teams. On the day, Azam missed the services of their goal scoring machine Prince Dube who has been ruled out for two weeks after picking a hamstring injury during their recent clash against Mwadui. For Ihefu, the defeat was salt on the fresh wound for them as they missed a chance to grab necessary three points to give them a boost of surviving possible relegation. The Mbarali based outfits continue to struggle to pick themselves up from the danger zone at the base of the table as they lately have 20 points from 24 encounters hence, they deserve to resurrect in their remaining matches to stay put in the top flight league.