IN a bid to support government efforts in improving learning environment, the World Vision Tanzania has handed over 44 modern pit latrines to three primary schools in Endadmet Ward in Babati District, Manyara Region. The Non-Government Organisation coordinator of Gorowa project, Ester Mushendwa, while handing over the project to Babati District Commissioner, Lazaro Twange over the weekend said the latrines’ construction forced them to part with 189m/-. She said that was part of their community project as the World Vision marks its 40 years anniversary since it started its operations in Tanzania to serve children living in difficult conditions. Ms Mushendwa said the pit latrines will benefit more than 1,655 students in Endadmet, Gidas and Endanachan Primary Schools, adding that the Gorowa project was started in 2008/9 and has so far reached 18 villages resulting in the residents’ livelihoods being raised. Equally, the residents have realised modern farming methods and technologies in their midst, as well as entrepreneurship growth. “The objective of the project is to contribute in the sustainable development of children especially those in difficult environments,” added the Coordinator. Another project executed during the 2019/20 financial year was the construction of VETA at Ayasanda area in Babati District, and some more modern latrines in schools as well as irrigation infrastructure. Speaking at the event, Babati District Education Officer for Primary Schools, Getrude Tarimo said the project of modern latrines will help to reduce communicable diseases like the Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) especially amongst the girl-child as a student. She said also that the availability of modern latrines in the district has helped to increase students’ enrollemnt, participation and pass rate. Commenting, Babati District Commissioner Mr Twange urged teachers from the schools where the project implemented is being to make sure the latrines are used properly and routinely repaired once they see any weakness. “We thank World Vision for investing huge sum of money in implementing the project that could have been done by the government. They have supported the government’s efforts of improving learning environments in our schools,” pointed out the DC.