BANK of Tanzania (BoT) has established a database of all banks’ employees involved in gross misconduct to ensure that they are manned by people of high integrity. This was unveiled in a statement issued by the Central Bank in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. According to the statement: “All banks and financial institutions are required to submit to the Bank in attached format information pertaining to staff who were or will be terminated because of gross misconduct or fraud and those who resigned or will resign during the disciplinary process involving fraud.” The BoT said the information should cover the period from January 2011 todate and should be submitted within 10 days from the date the statement was issued. Also, the information should be submitted within seven days from the date of conclusion of staff termination process, including completion of internal appeal process or from the date when the staff resigns from employment during the disciplinary hearing process. In the meantime, the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Monetary Policy Statement for the MidYear Report 2020/21 financial year shows that the banking sector remained stable and profitable in the first half of the fiscal year 2020/21, with capital and liquidity levels above the regulatory requirements. The quality of assets of banks improved, as the ratio of non-performing loans (NPLs) to gross loans declined to 9.3 per cent in December 2020 from 10.8 per cent in June 2020. The BoT implemented measures to reduce NPLs close to the desired level of 5 per cent, which included enforcement of risk based prudential requirements and requiring banks to improve credit underwriting standards using credit information reports from Credit Reference Bureaus in loan application. In addition, the Bank of Tanzania has instituted mechanisms of monitoring banks in the implementation of strategies to reduce nonperforming loans. Furthermore, banks are required to submit credit information to the credit reference system and adhere to the Tanzania Bankers’ Association Code of Conduct for staff of the banking sector. The Central Bank also continued to strengthen risk management practices in the financial sector by implementing various policies and regulatory reforms to safeguard the stability of the industry. This includes directing banks to implement capital restoration plans and adhere to the regulatory requirements.