BUSINESSMAN Mananse Nakomolwa on Wednesday appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam charged with obtaining 850m/- loan from Stanbic Bank by false pretences and money laundering. The 43-year-old resident of Kimbiji area in Kigamboni District was not allowed to enter plea to the charges because the case has been filed under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. Senior Resident Magistrate in Charge Godfrey Isaya informed the accused person that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail as money laundering charge is not bailable. Under the circumstances, the case was adjourned to March 16, 2021, for mention. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution, led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, are incomplete. Prosecuting, the trial attorney told the court that the accused person committed the offence on diverse dates in May 2018 within the commercial city of Dar es Salaam. The court heard that within the period and places and with intent to defraud, the businessman obtained a loan of 850m/- from Stanbic Bank guaranteed by one Hellen Olengailuva. It is alleged that the accused person had falsely pretended to Hellen that she will be among directors of Nakos Logistics Company Limited, the fact he knew to be untrue. On money laundering, the prosecution charged the businessman in that within the same period and places, he directly engaged himself in a transaction of loan involving withdrawals of the 850m/- through the bank. According to the prosecution, the businessman knew or ought to have known that the said withdrawals were proceeds of predicate offence of obtaining money by false pretences for the purpose of disguising the illicit origin of the money and evade the consequences to his action. Meanwhile, a member of the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF), Detective Corporal Jacob Sylivester, alias Sechonge (34) and a cleaner with Suma JKT, Almas Seleman (26), were brought before the same court accused of murder. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Yusto Ruboroga, the two accused persons were not allowed to enter plea to the charge because their trial will be heard by the High Court. The case was adjourned to March 16, 2021, for mention. State Attorney Neema Mushi, for the prosecution, informed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. It is alleged that on November 15, 2020 at Fire area within Ilala District in Dar es Salaam City, the two accused persons killed one Abdul Ahmed