KENYAN President Uhuru Kenyatta has eulogised the late John Magufuli as a leader who showed that the African continent can stand on its own without depending on foreign aid. Mr Kenyatta, who is also the current East African Community(EAC) said Dr Magufuli taught many African leaders a lesson that the continent could be run without funding from foreign countries which comes with a raft of conditions. “The late Magufuli has in a short period of time, shown to the world that Africa can stand on its own without relying on foreign aid,” said Mr Kenyatta in his tribute to Dr Magufuli at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. According to Mr Kenyatta, the departed leader proved to the world that Africans were able to oversee and manage their own economies without foreign dependency. He described Dr Magufuli’s death as a big loss not only to Tanzania and Africa, but the world at large. “Africa and the world have lost a lustrous leader whose vision, passion and immense leadership propelled the nation of Tanzania forward and also steered the East African Community to closer integration,” said President Kenyatta. During his reign, President Magufuli often criticised foreign aid, arguing that Tanzania, and indeed the African continent, had the power to fund its own projects domestically. The EAC Chairperson described Dr Magufuli as a true friend with whom he interacted regularly on the EAC issues. Mr Kenyatta recounted how often he spoke with the former Tanzanian President on how best to steer the EAC bloc in realising the envisioned integration. “The late President Magufuli was a champion of pan-Africanism and the passing on President Magufuli — I have lost a friend, a colleague and a visionary ally,” he added. “When I heard of the saddest news on his death I said I had to personally come and pay my respects to him no matter what,” he added. The Kenyan leader, while vowing to ensure that the East African integration dream comes to fruition, pledged President Samia Suluhu Hassan a continued cooperation. President Kenyatta asked Mama Samia to follow the path paved by her predecessor. Mr Kenyatta quoted the Bible, the book of Joshua to encourage President Samia Suluhu Hassan, as she takes the reins from her predecessor. “My sister, you have been shown the road, it has been opened, go ahead.” I assure you that we will walk this journey together to bring the region together and the continent as one,” President Kenyatta said. “Like Joshua was told ...do not be afraid. Be courageous.” Meanwhile, the Kenyan leader had to cut short his tribute to Dr Magufuli in respect of the Adhan, an Islamic call to prayer, recited by a muezzin. The three-minute gesture was greeted by a thunderous applause from the crowd. Under Dr Magufuli, the IMF listed Tanzania among the fastest growing sub-Saharan economies, averaging 6 per cent. Last year, the World Bank admitted the country into the list of Lower Middle Income Economies.