TANZANIA ladies top golfer Madina Idd is heading up for the Entebbe Ladies Golf Open Championship. The annual championship organised by Uganda Ladies Golf Union (ULGU) is scheduled to tee off from tomorrow to Saturday at the par 71 lakeside Entebbe Golf Club course in Uganda. The 36 holes two-day tournament is expected to bring together top players from hosts Uganda and invited golfers from the East African region including Tanzania. Madina, who is also a Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) honorary Secretary, told the ‘Daily News’ from Arusha yesterday that so far she was the only player from Tanzania to have confirmed participation for the same. “We are honoured for ULGU to invite us to take part at this prestigious event, but I am the only player from Tanzania so far to have confirmed to take part,” she said. Madina added that the Entebbe Ladies Golfer Open Championship is one of the ideal tournaments one should not want to miss, but the global coronavirus pandemic has made things difficult for golfers across the globe to participate in different tournaments. She said that she is preparing to leave today for Entebbe after clearing the Covid-19 test result. “All my preparation are going just fine, I expect to leave the country on Thursday (today) and I am happy that I have today (yesterday) received Covid-19 test result that clears me to travel. I thank God that all is fine for me,” she said. “This is an individual tournament that players can arrange and participate in, I prepare for that as I understand it is going to be tough one, but looking forward to it." Madina will head to the event with a 2013 good memory, when she won her maiden Entebbe ladies title and she is looking for a double. The 2018 All Africa Challenge Trophy individual category champion is returning to action after missing out last year, which was difficult for every country as many events were forced to cancellation due to the coronavirus crisis that continue to threaten the World of sports. She explained that the situation is difficult but we need to continue praying for each other’s safety as life has to go on.