THE government is seeking for intervention from religious leaders in educating members of the public on formalizing properties and keeping legal records of their inheritors to reduce social conflicts. Constitution and Legal Affairs Minister, Mwigulu Nchemba stated on Wednesday that lack of formalization of properties, and failure to keep proper records of ownership after death of former owners, has been contributing to rising social fights for inheritance. “There has been a rising wave of incidents whereby the rightful inheritors are being robbed of properties. It has become a trend where those who are chosen to supervise properties that belonged to the deceased regard themselves as owners or immediate beneficiaries, this is wrong,” Dr Nchemba stressed. He was speaking in Dar es Salaam when he opened a seminar organized by the Registration, Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA), for religious leaders from different denominations. The seminar aimed at building capacity among them over the Law of Marriage Act, 1971, registration of marriages and divorces. “You, religious leaders, should help us to educate people so that they formalize things they do and own. People have been handing over possession of their properties orally, with no legal records, this creates problems which pulls us back in social wellbeing,” he stressed. The minister noted that religious institutions have a key role to play in socio-economic development as he called on the group to air constructive views towards the review of the country’s Law of Marriage Act, which has been under criticism for allowing marriage of girls under the age of 18. Four years ago, the High Court ruled that marriage under the age of 18 was illegal and directed the government to raise the minimum age of marriage to 18 for both boys and girls within one year. The government has since then embarked on the process to review the law. The minister noted that his docket had continued with the process and is still collecting opinions from stakeholders before tabling the draft law to Parliament. “We want the law to be inclusive. Despite that you are religious leaders, we also want you to give us views that will also consider those without religion because we (government) serve all groups,” he told the participants. Earlier, his deputy, Geofrey Pinda remarked that in most cases, laws were oppressive because they were outdated, so there was a need to review them and make them up-to-date. “Religious leaders have to give their views that would also benefit other groups that do not belong to any religion,” Mr Pinda appealed. On her part, RITA’s Acting Administrator General, Ms Emmy Hudson said the seminar was a catalyst in improving religious leaders’ activities as far as issues of marriage were concerned. “The objective of the workshop is to increase more participation of religious leaders in our activities and remind them of their role in implementing the law,” she said. Representing Islamic religious leaders at the seminar, Secretary General of the National Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA), Nuhu Jabir Mruma, said they have been closely working with the government and thanked the government for valuing the opinion of religious leaders. He insisted on making inclusive laws by involving many stakeholders in giving their opinions, and advised that more time is needed during collection of views. Christian religious leader, Reverend Elisante Mshama wanted review of the outdated marriage law, which, he said, was not helpful for women when seeking inheritance. “With this engagement of religious leaders, we believe that the envisaged new marriage law will be inclusive,” he said.