THE whole World has continued to mourn with the rest of Tanzania for the death of President John Magufuli as they offer their condolences to the family and nation at large. President Magufuli passed away on Wednesday evening in Dar es Salaam of heart related complications. Since his death, sportsmen have spoken highly of the great man who indeed did a tremendous role in the sports revolution. Tanzanian national team striker Simon Msuva who plays for Wydad AC said in his social media platform, “A big blow to the nation. We will always remember you for all the good you have done for us. You have a lot from when you were the Minister and President. My deep condolences to Mama Janeth Magufuli and the family at large. Rest in Peace father.” Others who offered their condolences were the Zimbabwean football club FC Platinum who wrote: “The African Continent is at loss, we express our most sincere condolences to the Tanzania football family and the nation at large on the passing of President John Pombe Magufuli. May his dear Soul Rest in Eternal Peace.” In Uganda too, Onduparaka FC has mourned Tanzania’s loss writing a sorrow message that stated “We lost, Tanzania Lost, East Africa has Lost. Rest in Eternal Power Pombe!” It was not only football clubs and associations outside Tanzania boundaries that mourned the death of Magufuli but also various international players as well have mourned with the country. The Kenyan national team skipper Victor Wanyama who plays as a defensive midfielder in Major League Soccer club CF Montréal tweeted, “My heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and people Of Tanzania following the sudden demise of President John Pombe Magufuli, praying for strength and unity during this difficult time.” Michael Olunga, a Kenyan professional footballer who plays as a forward for Qatari club Al-Duhail, wrote, “Heartfelt condolences to our neighbours Tanzania. Rest in Peace Magufuli.” A Ghanaian footballer, James Kotei who once played for Simba SC on his social media account posted a picture for President Magufuli with tears lamenting why has the loving President passed, “why Mr President? Rest in Peace, sorry my people Tanzania.”