AFTER losing their first match of group stage of CAF Confederation Cup to Raja Casablanca of Morocco, Namungo are regrouping today to prepare for their next assignment against Pyramids FC of Egypt on March 17 at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. The fixture shows that the Ruangwa based club will later host Nkana FC of Zambia on April 2 at the same venue before facing Raja Casablanca on April 11 and their final match will be on April 28 playing away against Pyramids. The club’s head coach, Hemed Morocco has said that after losing their away match, they are now turning their focus to their home tie to make sure they win to register points in their quest to play in the quarterfinals. Pyramids will land in Dar es Salaam energised by their 4-1 Saturday’s emphatic win over El Obour Sporting in their Egyptian Premier League. Namungo coach said that despite losing their first away match in Morocco, they stay optimistic to perform well in other forthcoming assignments. He said that they will come back with full energy to make things work for their side. Though their match against Pyramids will be tough and unpredictable, Morocco said that they will make intensive preparations to make sure that they emerge winners before home supporters. “We have worked on our previous mistakes that resulted to our 1-0- away defeat so that we do not repeat  the same mistakes when we host Pyramids in Dar es Salaam,” he said. He said that Namungo had some minor defensive mistakes that allowed their opponents to score a goal through a penalty. Sofiane Rahimi scored the only goal that gave the North African side a slim win through a penalty in the second half. Despite losing, Morocco had however, hailed his boys for their brave away performance that did not see them conceding more goals. Namungo are in Group D alongside Raja Casablanca (Morocco), Pyramids FC (Egypt) and Nkana FC (Zambia). Group A comprises Enyimba of Nigeria, Entente Setif (Algeria), Orlando Pirates (South Africa) and Al Ahly Benghazi of Libya. The Group B teams are Renaissance Berkane of Morocco - who are the defending champions - JS Kabylie (Algeria), Coton Sport (Cameroon), and NAPSA Stars of Zambia. Also in the competition are Etoile Sahel (Tunisia)/(Young Buffaloes (Eswatini), CS Sfaxien (Tunisia), Salitas (Burkina Faso) and ASC Jaraaf of Senegal who are in Group C. The group winners and runners-up qualify for the quarter-finals. Namungo are debutants in the tournament and shockingly reached the group stage despite odds initially placed against them. On their way to Group D, Namungo defeated Al Rabita, Al-Hilal Obeid, and Primeiro de Agosto; a side they faced twice in Tanzania after the coronavirus affected their first leg schedule that was planned to take place in Angola.