TRUSTING women in decision making posts is one thing, and giving them an opportunity to demonstrate their skills is another thing, but Tanzania is doing both. In Tanzania, women are highly trusted, valued and they have equal rights as men to work in various posts, as long as they have qualifications. Gender is no longer a barrier for one to hold a senior position in the government. All pillars of the government have women in higher posts. Their presence and good work is highly recognised and appreciated in all fields they are working in. Starting from the Executive where the country has the first-ever female Vice-President and the Judiciary that has a number of female judges and magistrates, here comes the National Assembly whose Speaker is a man, but his Deputy is a woman, Dr Tulia Ackson. Dr Ackson has been serving in this capacity since 2015 after the inauguration of the 11th Parliament, when Mr Job Ndugai was elected Speaker, taking over from then first female Speaker Anne Makinda. Dr Ackson was re-elected to the seat for the 12th Parliament that kicked off in November last year after the end of the 2020 general election held on October 28. Before joining politics, Dr Ackson was a senior lecturer at the School of Law of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) until September 14, 2015 when former President Jakaya Kikwete appointed her to a position of Deputy Attorney General (DAG), setting a record of being the first female to hold the position. Two months later on November 16, 2015, President John Magufuli appointed her a Member of Parliament before she was later elected by lawmakers to the position of Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly. She served the position for five years of the 11th Parliament. In the 2020 general election she decided to vie for MP for Mbeya Urban Constituency where she won against her closer rival from Chadema Joseph Mbilinyi. After making it back to the House, Dr Tulia was re-elected Deputy Speaker for the second term, being the second woman to take over the seat after Ms Makinda. Born on December 23, 1976 in Tukuyu, Mbeya Region, Dr Tulia attended her primary education at Mabonde Primary school between 1984 and 1990 before she joined Loleza Girls’ Secondary School from 1991 to 1994. Between 1994 and 1996 she studied at Zanaki Girls’ High School for Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education before joining the University of Dar es Salaam for higher education studies where she studied Bachelor of Law from 1998 to 2001.