YOUNG Africans head coach, Cedric Kaze has credited a Tanga-based Coastal Union for their 2-1 home victory against his boys. “I must give credit to them (Coastal Union) because they played good football always present to play second balls and we gave them too much space to play especially at the midfield,” said Kaze. Yanga defeat saw Yanga ending their 22- match unbeaten run. however, they are still leading the table with 49 points. He has however urged his players to stay positive and focus for their forthcoming assignments. “The most important thing now is to pick ourselves up ahead of the next match against Polisi Tanzania on Sunday and we must refresh our heads looking forward to the league,” he said. “‘We lost the battle and not the war, the loser always falls and does not rise up but the champions fall down and rise up again. This year, Tanzania will be green and yellow.’ “We had a very bad day, first minutes into the game we lost a penalty and then two minutes later we conceded the first goal, and all this put us under huge pressure but we pulled level, and again we pressed them to score, but we failed to maintain compact at the back as we all moved forward, and it gave them space to use the midfield and they scored their second goal.” This resurfaced when Kisinda missed a penalty in the early stages of their match against Coastal Union on Thursday at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga where the former succumbed to a 2-1 defeat. With the nosedive, Yanga have now entered the sixth year without winning against Coastal Union at their Mkwakwani home Stadium. Though the Angolan speedy player missed the spot kick, he corrected himself to score the equaliser early in the second half of the tense encounter which was not enough to help them leave the venue unscratched. His Coastal Union’s counterpart, Juma Mgunda was full of praise for managing to seize all three points from the league leaders before their home supporters. Goals from Erick Okorai and Said Mudathir gave the home team the 2-1 home win. “We took all precaution measures required when playing against a big team like Yanga and with the full backing from our fans, the boys on the pitch were boosted a lot thereby winning the match. “My players had a high level of tactical discipline which in the end gave us the crucial win and I hope that the same rhythm will continue for the other upcoming matches in the league,” he said. On whether he will blame his players for the defeat, Kaze said: “We don’t have time to complain or pick on individuals for the result, we need to go back and plan, we have to go to the drawing board as a team and plan since we have a game on Sunday.” On whether Yanga are still in the title race, Kaze said: “We still have 12 matches to play for and we need to lift ourselves up now and win our matches, it is still too early to talk about the title.” Kaze has further blamed the team’s defensive tactics for the defeat, insisting they gave their opponents too much room to meet the ball and it turned out to be costly. “I must admit we must always fight for a win and if not a win then we must get a draw from our matches but again my players are not getting it right, they moved forward looking for goals and left a gap in the back, and we were punished,” Kaze continued. “It is the discipline tactic which cost us the game especially in the second half, and we will talk about it, we will train and work on that problem but the most important thing is for us to lift ourselves up, without help from anyone." Despite the defeat, Yanga are still top of the 18-team table with 49 points from the 22 matches played and they have recorded 14 wins, seven draws, and a loss, scoring 35 goals in the process and conceding 13.