THE government has given 210m/- for the construction of seven laboratories in Siha District, Kilimanjaro Region. Such construction of laboratories will enable students to have practical lessons often and lead to good understanding of subjects and increase pass rates for those taking science subjects. At a session to evaluate 2020 national examination results in the district, Siha District Commissioner (DC) Onesmo Buswelu said every school got 30m/- to improve the quality of education, especially in science subjects. “The government has continued improving education infrastructure at all levels. For example, 210m/- was issued to accomplish the construction of seven laboratories in our district and students will, in addition to theory classes, be able to do practicals in laboratories,” said DC Buswelu. Siha District has put in place several strategic plans for education improvement, including motivating students to take science subjects and employ good teachers, have teaching materials and an enabling teaching environment. The government will also ensure all infrastructures are in good shape, such as water and other school services. The DC noted that pass rates had gone up at primary and secondary schools in a few months after stakeholders met and put in place strategic plans to improve the quality of education. “We are striving to provide quality education, but to be successful in this, parents and guardians should collaborate with the government and other stakeholders to ensure all children access education,” said Mr Buswelu. Siha District Council Education Officer (Primary) Rose Sandi pointed out that they had achieved a lot in controlling truancy, specifically in pastoralist communities in which in the past children used to drop out of school and go to pasture. Fuka Councillor Samwel Mmari appealed to the government to make more efforts to improve school infrastructures, including teachers’ houses, offices and washrooms. He said that would motivate teachers to work hard.