VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan is on Monday expected to start a three-day visit in Tanga region, where she is scheduled to inaugurate and inspect a number of development projects. The Vice-President will inaugurate a 4bn/- Tanga- Muheza water project and food processing factories and hold a forum for investment in the region. This is her first visit since she was sworn in for the second term as the vice-president following the General Election conducted on October 28th, last year. Addressing a press conference yesterday, Tanga Regional Commissioner Martine Shigella said the vice-president will arrive in the region at 8.00a.m at Mkata township, where the headquarters of Handeni District Council is constructed. “She is expected to lay a foundation stone for the construction of the Handeni District Council offices and visit the fruits processing factory,” said the RC. Mama Samia will then proceed to Korogwe District, to launch a factory processing several agricultural products such as maize, rice and fruits, laying a foundation stone for construction of Vocational Training College before addressing residents at the Manundu-Mbeza Primary School ground. On Tuesday, the Vice-President will visit Muheza and Pangani districts, where she will inaugurate the much-awaited water project in Handeni, whose implementation is part of promises made by President John Magufuli. Mama Samia will also visit Mkinga District. The vice-president is also expected to hold an investment forum that will be attended by local and foreign business men/women. The forum that will be held at the Regal Naivera Hall in Tanga City Council is aimed at promoting investment opportunities and attracting more investors to the region. The forum would also play a great role in stimulating industrialisation strategy as pioneered by the government aimed at upgrading the country's economy and creating more employment opportunities for locals. For years, Tanga manufactured goods dominated the shops in the country and mass manufactured items were produced more efficiently and competitively than, arguably, anywhere else in the country. Some decades ago, Tanga was once a region with a vibrant industrial economy, with people travelling from all other regions to seek employment in the area located in the country's Northeast corridor. From the expansive sisal plantations to the flourishing industries, it was a vivid case of a region with industrial growth. The government has been repeatedly expressing its commitment to transform Tanga into an industrial and business hub it had once been. In 2017, Mr Shigella warned that those who had not started to revive the privatised industries, as directed by President Magufuli, should embark on a process to hand them back to the government, so that other investors could take over and run them in order to create employment for the residents. He mentioned some of the collapsed industries as textile factories. The RC commended the steel industry, which had in the past collapsed but now has been revived and has started operating. In a move to regain its lost industrialisation status, the region has allocated land for the economic zone at Pongwe area, where Mr Shigella invited the investors to set up industries.