ZANZIBAR President Hussein Mwinyi has said that the eighth phase government remains committed to the realization of a society where women are not left behind in all positions of leadership in the country. In his speech at the gathering to mark the 2021 Women’s Day here, Dr Mwinyi said his government will ensure that women are engaged or participate in all decision-making bodies and meetings. Dr Mwinyi’s speech was read on his behalf by the Second Vice –President, Hemed Suleiman Abdalla. At the colourful event held at the Sheikh Idrissa Abdulwakili Multipurpose Hall, Kikwajuni Street, he explained in his speech that members of the community should be thankful to the government for its ongoing efforts in uplifting women in Zanzibar, including their participation in decision-making bodies. He said that women are also recognized in the Constitution of Zanzibar of 1984, Article 21 (2), which states that every Zanzibari has the right and freedom to participate fully in the decision-making process of his or her life and of the nation. Article 67 (1) also stipulates the presence of women members of the House of Representatives at 40 per cent of all elected members in constituencies. Despite the successes in uplifting women, the speech mentioned some of the challenges that impede women development as the existence of policies within some political parties that do not give priority to women to hold leadership positions which leads to inequality. He said that many women attempt to run for various positions, but the challenges lead them to humiliation and despair. “Let me also talk about child nurturing, members of the society still do not provide equal space for female children, promoting patriarchal system that prioritizes a man and create a negative attitude towards a woman, this is a challenge,” he said. Mr Nassor Ahmed Mazurui- Minister of Health, Social Welfare, the Elderly, Gender and Children, called on the people to abandon misconceptions on women in order to support the government achieve its goals of involving women in decision-making bodies. Minister Mazurui explained that it is now 46 years since the United Nations began celebrating ‘Women’s Day, while Zanzibar started observing the day in 1991 with the aim of achieving gender equality and women’s empowerment. World Women’s Day is celebrated every 08th March, where this year’s theme is “Change mind-set: Strengthen Women’s Participation in Decision for Sustainable Development”.