TANZANIA is now heading towards witnessing timely dispensation of justice on issues related to inheritance, divorces and child support, among others. The new development comes as the judiciary recently declared that it has designated the newly constructed Justice Integrated Centre at Temeke in Dar es Salaam as a focal point where family related disputes will be conclusively determined. Talking to the Daily News on Wednesday, lawyers, women and children rights groups supported the move, expressing optimism that the decision will highly contribute to timely dispensation of justice. They hinted that the previous system in handling the cases was faced with several shortcomings. Advocate Paschal Kamala cited one shortcoming as inordinate delay in determination of cases, especially ones related to inheritance or probate and administration of estates of deceased. "Family related issues are fundamental to welfare of the society which regulates the relationship between or among members of the families. Any delay in determination of these issues affects the society as a whole," the soft spoken lawyer said. The advocate pointed out that they have witnessed some probate and administration cases doing the rounds in court for more than ten and sometimes even 20 years. "Take for example if the issue in dispute is property aimed at raising school fees for children, these beneficiaries would miss better education simply because the dispute has not been determined to establish the beneficiaries, thus distorting the essence of resorting the matter to court," he said. Seasoned advocate Cuthbert Tenga also supported the decision, pointing out that it was the right time for the Judiciary to designate such special court to handle family disputes because of their nature, sensitivity and complexity in determination. "You could find one family is divided on religious grounds, some being Christians and others Muslims. So it becomes very difficult to determine which law is to be applied in determining such kind of family conflict. It needs special magistrates who are well versed in this field to handle the case,” he said. It was his opinion that having one centre of determining such kind of cases would maintain precedence on decisions that are to be given. Another long serving advocate, Alex Mgongolwa expressed optimism on the decision reached by the Judiciary, cautioning that the fruits would be measured later and the efficiency would depend on the investments. Other lawyers were quick to point out that the Judiciary would achieve such objectives if the designated special court is adequately equipped with qualified judicial officers, supporting staff and modern working tools, especially Information and Communication Technology tools. However, they proposed that such kind of Centre should be established in other regions because cases of such nature are all over the country. The Legal and Human Rights Centre (LHRC) Executive Director, Ms Anna Henga said that she was pleased with the new development, taking into account they have been pressing the government for establishment of a family court in the country. According to her, in the circumstances whereby families are having issues, it’s the women and children who suffer most. She pointed out that usually women are unable to achieve the required justice due to their many roles at home, thereby failing to appear in all court sessions. “After land conflicts, family disputes like marriage problems, issues of inheritance, divorce and child support follow in magnitude in Tanzania. “Majority of these cases are very emotional and oppressive in nature to these two groups…this is why the initiative is called for. Ms Henga observed that the new approach will not only involve immediate determination of justice, but will also become more efficient and user-friendly family court system, which will include sensible, comprehensive and sensitive procedures, particularly for vulnerable families. The Coordinator of the Crisis Resolving Centre (CRC), Ms Gladness Munuo was of the view that the initiative was very excellent, appealing to responsible organs to deliver justice as per the intended objectives. Ms Munuo said that CRC receives a big number of cases related to inheritance, family disputes and many others of the same nature, noting that the move will help in their timely dispensation. “The current focus now should be on creating awareness and making sure people know the importance of resorting to the right remedies to acquire justice,” said Ms Munuo. Senior Deputy Registrar of the High Court of Tanzania, Mr, Messeka Chaba on Tuesday disclosed the Judiciary's move of designating the court when briefing members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Constitution and Legal Affairs on various court judicial functions recently. He said the Judiciary of Tanzania came up with a new approach of quick determination of family disputes and eliminate congestion of cases which currently are more than 5,000, according to studies conducted in 2017 and 2018. Mr Chaba noted that surveys conducted between 2017 and 2018 found that a large percentage of citizens were unaware of administration of estate issues, and that the 5,000 cases had not been finalised due to various factors. "When someone dies, those left behind do not know what to do in order to apply or handle administration of estate cases and even where they should apply. Others end up in limbo for lack of awareness, as well as lack of other services to enable them complete the proceedings," he said. The Deputy Registrar pointed out that the designated Integrated Justice Centre will involve all stakeholders involved in cases in the same building so that citizens could easily access all necessary services required. 