ON Thursday, Tanzania will join other countries in the world to mark the World Engineering Day, a way to raise awareness on the role of engineering in the the country’s economic growth. Engineering is essential for economic advancement and for the implementation of new technologies and the application of science, including basic needs of food, health, housing, roads and transport, water, energy and management of the planet’s resources. This is an important day for engineers in Tanzania to raise their competencies in order to grab the huge opportunities in the implementation of various mega projects. According to the Institution of Engineers Tanzania, about 80 per cent of experts in key strategic projects comprise local engineers, thus giving a huge boost to the strengthening and growth of the country’s construction sector. The execution of mega projects like the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and the Julius Nyerere Hydropower plant, among many others, has largely attracted participation of local companies and engineers than ever before. The increase in the number of local engineering companies and engineers in implementing the country’s flagship projects is commendable and should be an opportunity to enhance their competencies in order to grab emerging opportunities in the regional economic blocs. Engineering has been changing the world and the new rapidly emerging technologies are an opportunity for positive transformation that leaves no one behind. According to the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), engineering is a vital profession in addressing basic human needs, in alleviating poverty, in promoting secure and sustainable development, in responding to emergency situations, in reconstructing infrastructure, in bridging the knowledge divide and in promoting intercultural cooperation. There is a great need for engineers in the country to be creative and observe professional ethics in the implementation of various projects. It is a shame and sabotage for trusted engineers to carry out substandard works. The government has been making efforts to increase the number of engineers while ensuring that they are competent in order to supervise primary infrastructure countrywide. It is high time that local engineers raise their competencies and observe professional ethics so that they may contribute and support government efforts in building a strong and vibrant economy.