DAR ES SALAAM port is steadily aligning itself to increased trade thanks to improved efficiency that is helping it to absorb rising demand from East African shippers. This week the fifth berth of the port was inaugurated to mark another major step for speeding up loading and unloading of cargo at the port which is a gateway for 90 per cent of domestic trade, as well as the access route to six landlinked countries including Malawi, Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and the eastern part of Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Construction of the fifth birth is part of a multi-year upgrade of the port under the Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Programme (DMGP) aimed at improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the port and supporting economic development of Tanzania and the neighbouring land-linked countries. The programme supported by the government and a coalition of development partners which includes the Trade Mark East Africa (TMEA), the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID), and the World Bank, will lead to modernisation of the port to accommodate the calling and reception of larger vessels. Under the programme berths No 1-7 will be strengthened and deepened to 15.5 metres to enable the port receive larger cargo vessels. So far six berths are operational including a modern roll on-roll off (ro-ro) terminal opened last year with capacity to handle 600,000 vehicles a year and store 3,000 vehicles at any one time. “At least six berths are now operating. The remaining two, berths 6 and 7, are at 96 and 70 per cent completion stages respectively. They will be completed before the end of April 2021,” said the Director General of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) which manages the port, Deusdedit Kakoko during the inauguration ceremony. He said completion of the berths has allowed docking of big cargo vessels and significantly cut time for offloading and loading of cargo from seven days to one day. The port is now focused to raise cargo volume it handles by 43 per cent in the next four years after a completion of the on-going upgrading work, he said. The cargo volumes would increase to 25 million tonnes in 2025 up to 17.5 million tonnes handled last year, he said. “Despite of the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic, we managed to handle 17.5 million tonnes of cargoes in 2019/2020, compared to 17.1 million tonnes recorded in 2018/19,” he said. Dar Port Director Elihuruma Lema said under phase one of the programme three container yards for berth 5, berth 6 and berth 7 would be constructed. When completed the Dar port will be able to reserve up to 60,000 containers per month, from current 12,000 containers, he said. “We envisage a rise in containers being handled there from 240,000 per year to 700,000,” said Mr Lema. Railway channels would also be constructed to serve the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Cape Gauge and Meter Gauge standards. “There will be a train station at the port and seven railways from the container yards to the port’s gate,” he said. The Minister for Works and Transport, Dr Leonard Chamuriho who graced the occasion asked TPA to intensify supervision of the ongoing expansion projects for quality and timely completion. Dr Chamuriho said TPA should make a close follow up on the ongoing projects because the government has invested a lot of taxpayers’ money with the purpose of improving services and revenues. “The government has invested nearly 1tri/- for expanding ports across the country. TPA must ensure all these projects are completed on time, and the contractors must observe all standards and quality as stipulated in contracts,” he noted. The minister also witnessed the docking of a 180-metre long vessel at the newly launched berth.