EXPANSION of Mtwara Port has started paying off after Mozambique became the first country in Southeastern Africa to directly use the terminal in cargo transport. A total of 6,000 tonnes of cargo arrived in Mtwara recently through the terminal in transit to Mozambique, signifying the importance of the berth expansion project whose implementation is now complete. The fifth phase government under President John Magufuli came up with the project that involved construction of the 300- metre length berth and a cargo storage yard at Mtwara port as part of the government’s affirmative action to open up the southern transport corridor. The Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) was prompted to build the new berth with a length of 300 metres and 13.5-metre depth (draft) to enable the terminal accommodate mega cargo ships weighing 65,000 tonnes. Before the construction of the new berth, the natural harbour had the capacity to accommodate cargo ships with 40,000 tonnes (Dead Weight –DWT) as the old berth was measuring 380 metres in length while its yard had the size of 40,000 square metres. The second yard constructed measures 79,000 square metres, creating more space for cargo. Therefore, the construction of the second berth with a length of 300 metres makes Mtwara Port to have a berth measuring 680 metres in length in total. Acting Port Manager, Nobert Kalembo made the revelation here yesterday, noting that the port has already started serving neighbouring country of Mozambique as plans are underway to serve more countries. “We have received a consignment of 6,000 tonnes from outside the country for shipping to Mozambique,” he said. He mentioned Malawi and Zambia as the next countries in line to be served by the port. He said plans are underway to ensure the plan materializes. Mr Kalembo spoke of the port’s bright future when briefing Speaker of the Zanzibar House of Representative, Zuberi Ali Maulidi about the development of the 158bn/- Mtwara Port expansion project. Speaker Maulidi who is also the Patron of CCM Party in Mtwara had toured the region to witness development of the government strategic plans implemented in Mtwara region. On the other hand, the Mtwara Regional Commissioner, Gelasius Byakanwa urged management of Mtwara Port to offer three months’ grace period to countries with the potential to use the port for free in handling their cargo in order to draw more interest for them to use the port. “My plea is that the management of the port should consider providing a three month offer as a grace period to countries such as Malawi and Zambia to use our port for free in transporting their products in order to draw their attention to the possibility of using Mtwara Port,” he said. The expansion work at the multipurpose terminal was implemented through a joint venture of two Chinese firms- M/S China Railway Construction Engineering Group(CRCEG) and China Railway Major Bridge Engineering Group (CRMBEG) -at a tune of 137bn/-. Report from TPA official statement states that the modern multipurpose cargo terminal will now be capable of delivering quality services to the southern regions of Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma but with specific focus on serving the neighbouring countries in the southern African region- Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia. The terminal will increase its cargo handling capacity from 400,000 tonnes per annum to 1000,000 tonnes. The construction of the second berth started in May 2017 under ‘Design and Build’ approach. Currently, Mtwara Port plays a significant role in ferrying cashew nuts abroad, including Vietnam. Cashew nuts, which is the cash earning crop for the southerners, is one of the dependable forex earner for the country. Cement produced at Dangote Cement Plant has been reaching markets in Comoro and Zanzibar through Mtwara Port. A fertilizer plant to be established in Lindi will also depend on the port for the product to reach markets in some parts of the southern region and beyond. It should be also understood that the Port now plays an integral role in contributing to the country’s economic growth as mega oil tankers are now anchoring at the gateway to deliver fuel cargo for the country’s southern regions of Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma.