BUSINESS Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) has urged women entrepreneurs to register and formalise their businesses so that it would help them access loans from lending institutions. When women entrepreneurs register their businesses with BRELA, they win government recognition and benefit from various services. The advice was given by the BRELA’s Chief Executive Officer Godfrey Nyaisa at the launch of the Women’s Industry Week and the ongoing Product Exhibition at Kijitonyama Post Office Grounds in Dar es Salaam. Mr Nyaisa said they participated in the exhibition to enable the entrepreneurs know that when they do their business they should be recognised by the government as it helps them even when they apply for loans. “We continue to ask various traders to ensure that they register their businesses, not only to register businesses but also the products they manufacture in the sense of their trade names,” he said. He said there are challenges BRELA faces from traders present at the exhibition as they believe that if they are registered with the agency they will be sought by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). “I think that is also a challenge for all of us in the sense of these two institutions TRA and BRELA,” he said. “It is possible that the tax system has its challenges or it is the understanding of these small entrepreneurs that they have not yet received a very good understanding of the tax rates that they have to pay when the TRA officials have visited them.” He said another visible challenge was some business officials did not reach out to the entrepreneurs and others admitted that they saw the traders fleeing. “Now BRELA is an institution that has no branches in the regions because the law that established the agency has no issue of branches established itself as it is. Basically it would not be very easy to establish branches as we are all government institutions and councils have business officers. “Now the business officers were the ones who should have made the traders love them instead of the traders seeing them running away,” he said. He said the business management is a profession that needs to be studied so that its foundations can be based on getting people to open more businesses and increase government revenue. “But now they have been chasing traders instead of rushing to business officers. We have informed the minister so that this structure can be reviewed,” he said.