AS Simba prepare to face Sudanese giants, Al-Merrikh on Tuesday in the Group A match of CAF Champions League at the Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam, the club’s head coach, Didier Gomes has said that he firmly believes his defence line that has so far not allowed a goal in their group stage assignments. Simba will host Al-Merrikh in an empty stadium in a move by Confederation of African Football (CAF) to stop the spreading of Coronavirus. “I’m happy to see my squad improving as we move on,” “The defence has remained solid to make sure that we do not concede goals in the tournament,” he was quoted as saying. Simba will however, miss the services of its key defenders, who picked up two yellow cards. However, the club has said their absence will not affect their mission as other defenders are there to replace them. Jonas Mkude may be considered as one of the right candidates to replace Lwanga and Erasto Nyoni, among others may be available for Wawa’s replacement. According to Simba manager Abbas Selemani, the club has already received confirmation from Caf that Ivorian Pascal Wawa and Ugandan Taddeo Lwanga have accumulated two yellow cards each and therefore will not be eligible to play in the home game. “Pascal [Wawa] and Taddeo [Lwanga] will not be part of the squad for the match against Al Merrikh as they have accumulated two yellow cards,” confirmed Selemani. The Ivorian defender(Wawa) has formed a solid partnership in Simba’s backline with Kenyan Joash Onyango and from three games they have played, the Msimbazi giants have not conceded a goal, while Lwanga has been key in the midfield, combining well with Zambians Clatous Chama, Larry Bwalya and Mozambican Luis Miquissone. Simba are currently leading Group A on seven points having won their first two matches 1-0, against AS Vita Club of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Al Ahly of Egypt, before a stalemate against Al Merrikh in Sudan. Gomes, with unbeaten record in the Group Stage, is indeed seeking for a home victory to make sure that Simba sail into quarterfinal stages. He will lead Simba into fourth match of the CAF Champions League. And despite missing their home supporters because of CAF’s restrictions, Simba have vowed to beat their opponents, considering the fact that they managed to secure points in their away matches that also lacked cheering of their home fans. The club’s head of information and communication, Haji Manara expressed his disappointment for the home supporters being locked out of the stadium, saying that will not bar them from securing a home ground win.