TANZANIA has assured the government of Burundi and the International Community that it will continue to provide necessary support to refugees without discrimination and uphold the principle of voluntariness in repatriation exercise. It also said that it supports Burundi's move to join the Southern African Development Community (SADC). Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi expressed the government assurance during the official opening of the Sixth Joint Permanent Commission (JPC) Meeting between Tanzania and Burundi held on Friday in Kigoma region. He said Tanzania has been hosting Burundi refugees for decades, noting that currently the country has a total of 289,664 refugees, where 205,169 are from Burundi. "Tanzania in collaboration with United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR), International Organization for Migration (IOM) and other organizations is committed to serve the refugees," Prof Kabudi said. He noted that following improvements in political and social- economic conditions in Burundi, the country has been encouraging its people to voluntarily return back home. "The repatriation exercise has been coordinated by the Tripartite Commission, which includes Tanzania, Burundi, and UNHCR, therefore other claims do not reflect the government stance," Prof Kabudi added. He explained that since September 2017 to December last year, a total of 106,816 Burundi refugees have voluntarily returned back home while another 7,374 have registered for repatriation. Prof Kabudi assured the Burundi delegation that Tanzania will continue to support them, adding that efforts being undertaken to strengthen security in Burundi provide an opportunity for both countries to focus on implementing joint development strategies. He stressed that Tanzania supports Burundi’s application to join SADC, saying “it is our expectations that the country will be allowed to join the regional bloc in the coming SADC Summit for Head of States which will be held in August this year." Burundi's Minister of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation, Ambassador Albert Shingiro said that security and political situation in his country has improved. "Burundi has made a step forward towards its process of strengthening democracy... security has improved and people are enjoying their civic rights," he said. Ambassador Shingiro noted that following improvement in political and social- economic conditions, his country has witnessed the return of a large number of refugees who ran away from the country in 2015. "The return of these refugees is a testimony of peace and tranquility in Burundi ... I commend the government of Tanzania for facilitating the return of our citizens," he said. Ambassador Shingiro further noted that following the efforts   undertaken by the Burundi government to strengthen democracy, Francophone countries have lifted sanctions imposed on the country. "The United Nations Security Council has also recognised the efforts being undertaken by Burundi in strengthening peace, security and tranquility," he said. He, however, noted that Burundi enjoys its cooperation with Tanzania, stressing that the East African nation will remain a trusted ally, especially on support it offered at national, regional and international levels. "The people of Burundi will never forget the support offered by Tanzania in restoring and strengthening peace in our country," he said.