REIGNING champions Simba return to Mainland Premier League by hosting Tanzania Prisons tonight at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba will be firing from all cylinders, seeking revenge. The Msimbazi Reds lost to Prisons warders 1-0 in their first round match at the Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga, Rukwa courtesy of a piercing header from Samson Mbangula. It was the first defeat of the season for Simba and this is why the match tomorrow will present them with a chance to avenge the mistakes and keep pressing for the top spot. After playing 19 league matches, Simba are second on the table on 45 points, five points adrift the current leaders Young Africans, who have attained 50 points in their 23 outings. A win for Simba will drive them to 48 points at the second place of the table. Simba jetted back from Khartoum, Sudan on Monday, where they battled to a barren draw against Al Merreikh in the Match Day Three of CAF Champions League round of 16 last Saturday. They sit top of Group A in the continental premier competition with 7 points from three matches after winning their two opening matches against AS Vita of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Egyptian giants Al Ahly. “After landing from Sudan, our focus now is on the forthcoming league match against Tanzania Prisons. We know that it will be a difficult match but there is no other option apart from facing them,” said Simba Head of Communications Department Haji Manara. He added that their mission to retain the league title at the end of the season remain unchanged, insisting that Simba have what it takes to topple the current league leaders. They already made it clear that their primary target in the unfolding league is to defend the title for fourth consecutive time and that in CAF CL, they want to reach as far as the semifinals. On his side, Simba right wingback Shomari Kapombe said their squad is ready to fight for vital points, to boost their title defence campaign. “The league is quite competitive especially at this final stages and all teams are looking for the vital points but we are well prepared and looking forward to maintain our winning formula,” he said. On the other hand, Tanzania Prisons are 10th on the ladder with 27 points from ten games and have been among the teams which are tough to beat, especially when facing big sides in the contest like Simba, Yanga and Azam. Their recent match ended in a 1-1 draw versus Mbeya City at Nelson Mandela Stadium. Previously, the two sides used to meet at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya in a famous ‘Green City’ derby but this season, things have slightly changed after Tanzania Prisons momentarily shifted to Sumbawanga to pave way for renovation works at their base in Mbeya.