DEPUTY Minister for Water Maryprisca Mahundi has assured Missenyi District residents that the long-awaited Kyaka-Bunazi township water supply project will be completed by end of July, this year. Equally, she urged engineers under the Rural Water and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) to work as a team to ensure that the ongoing water projects countrywide are completed on schedule. She reminded contractors that there would be no extension of the project. She made the remarks when she inspected the Kyaka-Bunazi water project estimated to cost 9.4bn/- on completion. “We are confident that the project will be handed over on August, 1 this year because the funds are available. Engineers under Ruwasa should work as a team to complete the projects, “she said. The Deputy Minister also assured people in surrounding villages not covered under the project that they would also get water connectivity. Kyaka-Bunazi township water supply project is among pledges made by dr Magufuli during his 2020 presidential campaigns. Mwanza Regional Water and Sanitation Agency (MUWASA) Acting Executive Director Leonard Mseyele informed her that the project had to-date achieved 48 per cent performance, also assuring her that the contractor-China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) was working day and night to ensure the project was completed on schedule. He explained that the implementation of Lot Number One started on June 8, last year and would take about 13 months while Lot Number Two would be implemented using Force Account using local engineers. Nkenge Member of Parliament Florence Kyombo commended the government under President John Magufuli for implementing people-oriented projects. He also appealed for additional funds amounting 200m/- under Lot Two which would enable extension of water pipeline to cover Nsunga and Mutukula trading centres. Earlier this year, President John Magufuli expressed dissatisfaction over the implementation of a water project at Kyaka trading centre in Missenyi District and he directed the authorities to ensure that the project is completed within 13 months. He issued the directive on his way from Bukoba Municipal Council to Karagwe District when he made a stopover at Kyaka trading centre to greet hundreds of anxious people who waited for him along the road. He was apparently annoyed by reports in Missenyi District where a mega project was in progress by utilising water from the Kagera River to supply clean water to residents at Kyaka trading centre, Bunazi, Kagera Sugar and surrounding wards of Kilimilile, Kassambya and Mushasha. Currently, the area had population of about 37,350 and is expected to increase to 77,055. The water demand to-date was about 741,000 litres and during the next five years the demand will be 1.3million litres. He directed the District Executive Director for Missenyi to ensure that the contractor works night and day to complete the project.