THE first lot of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) that runs from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro will be operational in August this year, the government has stated. According to Minister for Works and Transport, Eng Leonard Chamuriho, the trials to ascertain the efficiency of the eagerly awaited new mode of transport will be conducted in July. He assured the public that the government through Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) will set reasonable prices as per the market demand. Moreover, he said the locomotive engines and wagons will arrive in the country in June before trials start the following month. Some engines and wagons from the same June delivery will be reserved for the services in other lots. Eng Chamuriho insisted that market forces will determine the grade of fares. However, he was categorical that fares will not exceed the amount charged by bus operators and will not be less than the charges imposed by marine vessels operators. “It is an open secret that marine transport is less costly than railway transport. Overland transport is costly, with air transport becoming costlier than the rest. We will be guided by these benchmarks” insisted the Minister. Minister Chamuriho gave the updates on the project shortly after the Parliamentary Standing Committee for Infrastructure made an inspection tour of the Dodoma-Morogoro and Dar es Salaam-Morogoro project to see its implementation and if value for money is observed. “Ninety per cent of the work in lot one is complete, we will conduct trials in July, and August the route will be in order, so the public must stay tuned to enjoy the 160-kilometre per hour services” said Eng Chamuriho. He said Yapi Merkezi (contractors) have done a commendable job to ensure the project is complete as per the agreement, boasting that it is one of the best within the region as it has unique specifications that fit the current trends. On his part, TRC Board Chairman, Prof John Kondoro said the quality of the job is excellent, whereas the second lot of 422-kilometre from Morogoro to Makutupora in Singida will be operational next year. “It has reached more than 50 per cent, and we are optimistic that by mid next year it will be operational as the government is committed to ensure that the public enjoys reliable and affordable transport infrastructure,” he insisted. The Parliamentary Standing Committee for Infrastructure Chairman, Mr Selemani Kakoso said they have been impressed by the work done and the quality of the job. He directed TRC who are overseeing the project to ensure that the infrastructure that is in place is well take care of as the government has invested heavily to ease railway transport woos. Mr Kakoso also said technology transfer which is well showcased by the contractors to local engineers will be of great importance for the maintenance and sustainability of the project after the contractors have left. He called upon TRC to complete compensation payment for the public who gave their assets to pave way for the project’s smooth implementation.