WAILS rented the air as the casket bearing the remains of the departed President John Magufuli left the Lugalo Military Hospital en-route Uhuru Stadium on the first day of last respects. From the wee hours, grieving Dar es Salaam residents in their thousands lined up along major roads to at least bid farewell to the motorcade that escorted the military tow truck, destined for St Peter’s Parish for a Requiem Mass. Grief was evident among many, as those who couldn’t control their emotions broke into tears, some weeping uncontrollably, while the ‘non-uniformed civilians’ managed to salute at the motorcade. Indeed, this was a befitting farewell to a leader celebrated across the continent and the world at large; rightly described within the East African Community (EAC) as a talented and brainy son of the region. Some mourners went as far as spreading their clothes and flowers on the roads as a sign of respect to the fallen leader. Such a sight was last witnessed in October 1999, when the Tanzanian People Defence Forces (TPDF) tow truck left Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere’s home for the National Stadium. The scene was not so different at St Peter’s Parish when the procession was greeted to wails from a section of Dar es Salaam residents, who were at hand to pay homage to their dear leader. As the casket made its way through the Church’s aisle to the altar, so were the faithful filling up the Parish for the Requiem Mass. This would turn out to be Dr Magufuli’s last Church service at St Peter’s Parish, after he last joined congregants for a Holy Mass on February 21. Delivering his homily, Assistant Parish Priest Rev Alister Makubi urged the nation to remain calm as the country comes to terms with the huge loss, during the 21-day mourning for Dr Magufuli. Inside the Parish, which was also frequented by Mwalimu Nyerere when in office and upon retirement, the choir led by Bernard James Mapalala recited sorrowful songs, synonymous with the current Lenten season. As the casket made its way out of the church, similar scenes would later be witnessed along the way. Grief-stricken wananchi, in their multitudes, still lined up the otherwise busy streets to catch a glimpse of the casket draped in the national flag. Of interest were the petty traders who flocked Kigogo, Boma and Machinga Complex stretches, waving the national flag, to bid their heroic statesman a befitting farewell. Dr Magufuli endeared himself to the country’s poor. His government always protected petty traders as evidenced by his decision to introduce Identity Cards (IDs) for them,that will contain extra information to enable them access services from various institutions, including banks. In December 2018, the departed leader handed out a total of 670,000 IDs to petty traders, whose business didn’t exceed 4mn/- a year. The late Magufuli had on more than one occasion dressed down and scoffed at regional leaders attempting to evict small traders. No sooner had the humongous speakers at the historic national stadium signalled the entry of the procession into the stadium than the TPDF’s Military Police (MP) and Red Cross Society was given a hard time to control the emotional mourners.