THE government has hinted at its plan to intensify the malaria eradication campaign, an arrangement that will involve key players in the country, including ordering all district councils to purchase Biolarvicide which is produced locally. This was revealed on Wednesday in the Coast region by Industry and Trade Minister, Geoffrey Mwambe when briefing the Parliamentary Committee for Industries, Trade and Environment on the role of a state-of-art biolarvicides factory in anti-malaria efforts. “Unfortunately, Tanzania lags behind in using biolarvicide while other countries have been benefiting from it in their anti-malaria campaigns,” he explained. Mr Mwambe further said plans were underway for his ministry to meet with the health ministry and Ministry for Regional Administration and Local Government to deliberate on their efforts to purchase the biolarvicides. The biolarvicide production firm, a unique one in Africa, was constructed as a result of an international cooperation agreement between Tanzania and Cuba, in which the latter provided technology while Tanzania financed the construction of the plant at 22.3 million US dollars for the major objective of fighting malaria. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, in 2017, malaria prevalence in Tanzania decreased by half, from 14.4 per cent in 2016 to 7.3 per cent in 2018. The report also showed that new infections for children under the age of five had dropped to 7.3 per cent in 2017. In 2020, NDC revealed that there were more than 67 councils in the country that had an outstanding debt amounting to 1.7bn/- for biolarvicides that were bought from its subsidiary company -Tanzania Biotech Products Limited (TBPL). The councils took biolarvicides to eradicate malaria in 2017 after President John Magufuli directed them to do so. NDC Acting Managing Director, Ms Rhobi Sattima told members of the committee that from next month, TBPL will commence production of bio-pesticides that will be used to manage agriculture pests in maize, cotton and vegetable, to begin with. “Our products have quality certificates from Tropical Pesticides Research Institute of Tanzania (TPRI), and as a way of monitoring the quality of the products in the market, National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) has issued a report which affirms the quality of robustness of biolarvicides,” she said. The Committees Vice Chairman, Member of Parliament for Buchosa, Eric Shigongo said it was high time the ministry of health and all councils procure biolarvicide and have a special campaign in the country to end malaria.