ALL roads on Sunday led to Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam when a huge multitude of Dar es Salaam residents, including sportsmen, players, club officials and musicians showed up in the final day that was set for the region to say ‘goodbye’ to their beloved one, the late President John Pombe Magufuli, who died on March 17 from heart complications. Young Africans’ chairman, Mshindo Msolla and Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) president Phares Magesa were among high profile sports officials who led their respective delegations to bid ‘farewell’ to the fallen president. Msolla had a full squad of club players and officials to appear at the stadium in their traditional yellow coloured jerseys as officials were in black suits to join other Tanzanians in a bad day of their memories. Msolla led Yanga parade to the coffin and he was accompanied with their Chief Administration and Technical Advisor Senzo Mazingisa, the club’s Fans Engagement Officer, Antonio Nugaz and players. Msolla said that Magufuli had a good contribution for sports development and he had always insisted for good results. The Dar es Salaam’s final day of paying respect was blessed with torrential rains though none was left behind from paying their last respect to the body of Magufuli, laid in a half opened coffin for the Dar es Salaam mourners to give their last respect. Among other sports personalities were Simba Sports Club’s board chairman, Mohammed Dewji, alias ‘Mo’, whereas despite his appearance he also wrote in his social media account that, “I join my fellow Tanzanians at Uhuru Stadium this morning (Saturday) to pay my last respect to our beloved President John Magufuli.” “Farewell to one of Africa’s great leaders, a Tanzania brother and a true patriot. Your legacy will live on in hearts and for generations to come. Rest in Peace.” Further than mourning Simba Chief Executive Officer Barbara Gonzalez informed the public, “In mourning the death of our beloved President John Magufuli we have decided to change the look of our photos on social media from yesterday (Saturday- for 21days) to black and white except for the red areas. May the Almighty God rest his soul in eternal peace.” Other than football clubs, musicians and Bongo movie artists were also in attendance. Among the artistes who appeared in the memorable event included Nasibu Abdul alias Diamond Platinumz, Rajabu Kahali (Harmonise), Omary Nyembo (Ommy Dimpoz). Apart from their appearance Raymond Mwakyusa alias Rayvany stood first and released a grieving song for the passing exemplary leader where it spoke of the sorrows that the Tanzania are left with, especially the minorities who saw him as their hope. His song also spoke highly of his great deeds, how much he sacrificed for many and how much he gave to the nation. Other than Rayvany, Rajabu Kahali popularly known as Harmonise accompanied with Ibrahim Mandingo (Country Boy), Ibrahim Abdallah (Ibraah) and many other artists, they sang “Asante Magufuli” song ( literary meaning thank you Magufuli) to turn their eyes into tears as they remembered the gone President, who was also an ardent music fan. With a lot of pain the artist sang, “I wish to cry, but even if I cry the tears cannot stop… I still feel like it’s a dream but…Thank you Magufuli, Thank you Magufuli…” they looked hurt broken. Ali Kiba, among high profiled and long seasoned musicians is in the list of others who released farewell songs, in which in his first verse he quoted President Magufuli’s speech, “One day you will remember me, you will remember me for the good deeds not for the bad because I have given my life for the poor Tanzanians.” Other than the song, he wrote, “One of the good words you left us is this speech, in which you told us we will remember you for the country; you sacrificed everything to bring your country’s development.” “You insisted that we should not discriminate each other based on either religion or tribal backgrounds. I am your youth; I am using your words to honour you, and to urge fellow Tanzanians to do all the work you told us to do. May God put you in a good place, father.” Magufuli’s body will also be honoured with last respect in Zanzibar, Dodoma, Mwanza before being laid to rest in his native village of Chato in Geita region on March 26.