RUKWA Region plans to launch a three-day investment forum in Sumbawanga this June. The forum expects to attract 350 stakeholders and investors from in and outside the region. Rukwa Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Bernard Makali said they would use the event to launch a regional investment profile report as well. "The three-day event will go simultaneously with the launch of Rukwa investment profile meant to market the richness the region has in terms of sufficient arable land for farming, forestry, industry, tourist services and mining,” Mr Makali said. RAS said that while presenting a report on preparations of Rukwa Investment Forum before the regional consultative committee (RCC) held in municipal council recently under the chairmanship of Regional Commissioner Joachim Wangabo. Due to its geographical features Rukwa has many mineral deposits of 15 different types, including precious metals, base metals, gemstones, industrial minerals and building materials most of which are not yet fully exploited. Rukwa, located between Lake Tanganyika and Lake Rukwa, has also several small lakes and rivers with various fish species, including sardines, tilapia, Nile Perch, mud fish, English fish, luciolates, strapessils and various ornamental species of fish which warrant investment in aquaculture. Rukwa has the potential for tourist attractions, including Old Bismark Fort along the shores of Lake Tanganyika in Kasanga Ward, Kalambo Falls, hot springs at Kizombwe Village, Lake Rukwa scenery from Ufipa escarpment, Lake Tanganyika shore, red columbus at Mbizi and Mbezi forests, Uwanda and Lwafi game reserves, Lake Kwela and Tembwa Falls. The 107.2-km road from Sumbawanga-Matai-Kasanga Port on the shores of Lake Tanganyika in Kalambo District is a strategic road that links the port, which is under expansion, to the municipal council. According to the RC, the road-port link is an important step towards exploiting the potential in the neighbouring countries of the DRC, Zambia and Burundi. "Both strategic  projects will be a gateway, open to the Southern Highlands Zone regions of Mbeya, Rukwa and Songwe as well as Katavi region by being an aerial link with the DRC, Zambia and Burundi in terms of trade," noted the RC Kalambo District Commissioner (DC) Carolious Misungwi said the presence of Kasanga Terminal and improved road networks would benefit the district in terms of business opportunities. “We, the residents of Kalambo commend the government for improving transport infrastructures as they also help us improve our domestic incomes," added Kalambo District Council Chairperson Daud Sichone. Kasanga Port, which is the second largest terminal in Lake Tanganyika (Tanzania’s side) after Kigoma, is currently undergoing expansion by Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) at the cost of more than 4.76bn/-.