NMB Bank on Wednesday announced the first batch of its “Bonge la Mpango” promotion winners, who won hard cash and 2 LIFAN threewheelers in the first weekly draw of the competition of 550m/- as prizes. During the first draw of the deposits mobilisation campaign held at the bank’s head office in Dar es Salaam, 10 of the lucky customers won money that was deposited in their accounts, while two each won a cargo three-wheeler. Speaking at the event, NMB Ag. Head of Personal Banking, Mr Ally Ngingite, said winning customers will be drawn from all over the country in the bank’s branches. According to him, the threemonth campaign was a way of rewarding its customers for their continued belief in the institution’s undisputed ability to safely keep and manage their deposits and savings, as well as giving them part of the profit the bank made last year. “At the end of the campaign, over 550m/- will be won as awards including the grand prize of a brand new Toyota Fortuner valued at 169m/-. “During weekly draws, new customers will stand a chance to win cash prizes of up to 500,000/- depending on the amount one deposited, while our existing customers can win more than that. When the promotion ends, 24 LIFAN three-wheelers will have won in weekly draws,” pointed out Mr Ngingite. He also noted that during the campaign period, a Tata – “Kirikuu” pick-up truck will be won every month, adding: “Apart from mobilising and enabling its customers to save more, the other advantage of making many deposits was increasing one’s chances of winning the fabulous prizes.” Before the draw was conducted, Gaming Board of Tanzania Inspector Elibariki Sengasenga cleared doubts of any mischievous acts in picking the winners, saying: “All Bonge la Mpango draws like all raffles conducted by NMB Bank, will be done transparently and observe the country’s gaming law and regulations. “I commend NMB for excelling in this area since all their raffles are conducted professionally and according to the gaming law of the land.”