THE High Court, Main Registry, has allowed former police officer Kevin Makaranga to apply for judicial review against the decision of the Police Force -- Immigration and Prison Service Commission -- to terminate him from employment. Principal Judge Eliezer Feleshi ruled in favour of Makaranga, the applicant, after granting his application for leave to apply for prerogative orders of certiorari and mandamus against the Commission, the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Home Affair and the Attorney General. “In a nutshell, this Court finds merits in the present application for leave to file an application for prerogative orders. Thus, the leave to file an application for prerogative orders is hereby granted,” ruled Dr Feleshi. He pointed out that it has been a constant outcry by the applicant that he was not accorded fair opportunity to be heard before his dismissal from employment and that the body that blessed his termination exercised powers not within its vicinity (lacked jurisdiction) on the contested termination. According to him, complaints of irregularities and manifested violations, regardless of their truthfulness or rather merits, the Court found the same to fall within the precepts set by the Court of Appeal in the cited case of Sanai Murumbe and another against Muhere Chacha. “Furthermore, the above traversed areas for prerogative orders hinge and bring home an arguable case as set forth by the Court of Appeal in the earlier cited case of Emma Bayo versus the Minister for Labour and Youth Development and 2 Others (supra) which this Court full subscribes to the same," he said. Judicial review is a specialised remedy in public law by which, the High Court exercises a supervisory jurisdiction over inferior courts, tribunals or other public bodies. Prerogative Orders are those issued by the High Court in exercising its supervisory jurisdiction over inferior or subordinate courts, tribunals, and public authorities through a process known as judicial review. These orders are neither a process nor cause of action; instead they are remedies available against a decision or proceedings of the administrative authority or the government. They include mandatory orders (mandamus), quashing orders (certiorari), prohibiting orders (prohibition), bring the body orders (habeas corpus') and under what authority orders (Quo warranto). In his case, Makaranga seeks for two prerogative orders of certiorari and mandamus to challenge the decision of the Commission. He orders for Certiorari quashing whole proceedings, judgment and findings dated July 30, 2018 for being tainted with serious illegalities. He alleges that the decision was very unreasonable that no reasonable authority could have reached the decision, for lack of reasons by both not taking into account matters which ought to have been taken into account and in taking into account matters which ought not to have been taken into account. Makaranga also applies for Mandamus order, compelling the Home Affairs Permanent Secretary to reinstate him as the decision of his dismissal from employment was in total violation of the principles of natural justice and lack of jurisdiction of the Commission. In his statement, the applicant alleged that the Commission lacked jurisdiction in terminating him as such powers are exercisable solely by Home Affairs Permanent Secretary upon recommendations by the Inspector General of Police with an appeal to the Commission upon grievances. Besides, he stated, the Commission allegedly acted in violation of the principles of natural justice for the applicant was neither issued with notice of hearing nor accorded opportunity to examine the documentary evidence. The applicant further stated in his statement of facts that, the decision did not state the offences and reasons in arriving at the decision with the Military Tribunal basing its decision on different pieces of evidence, that is, on matters which were not adduced by the parties.