WITH many resources available for producing electricity in the country, one innovator has managed to tap into the opportunity. Through Kou River in Mbulu District in Manyara Region, the innovative investor has come up with 320 kilowatts of power generated on a daily basis. The investor – Ms Rita Bapts of ranching company Darakuta Limited decided to take advantage of the available waterfalls and started producing power and sells it to Tanzania Electric Company (TANESCO). Darakuta Limited runs the power production, trading as Darakuta Hydropower, where Ms Bapts says that they saw an opportunity for such investment from the time they arrived and observed how the available water was under used. “After staying for a while at the ranch, we are now seeing benefits of the water that passes at our ranch. Before starting the hydropower investment, we held talks with TANESCO to see if we can produce and supply power to them, so when they agreed we signed contracts, and since 2016 we have been selling them power,” said Ms Bapts. Villages near the ranch had no power in the past, but later one of them – Gichameda was electrified through the Rural Energy Agency (REA) and made it easy for Darakuta to start producing power. “The truth must be told; after Gichameda village was connected to power through REA, it became easy for us to get electricity that enabled us to start generating our own. If TANESCO’s power was not near it could not be possible for us to produce electricity; we are thankful to TANESCO for connecting us and now we sell power to them,” said Ms Bapts. The Darakuta Hydropower project that cost 1bn/- to put up has also provided employment opportunities to people who live around the ranch, including guards at the production centre, as well as at the source. She hinted that they were thinking of putting up another hydropower project to have even more power. Ms Bapts said the company supports surrounding villages in various issues, including environmental awareness. She mentioned the villages as Kinambich, Masware, Kokomay and Gichameda.