KAGERA Sugar said the reason to part ways on mutual consent with former coach Mecky Maxime was because of series of poor results stamped by the team in most of their league matches. Speaking on the terminating of the contract was the club's secretary general Ali Masoud who said the two parties went separate ways before their 1-0 loss to Namungo on Saturday of which Maxime coached for the last time. "It is true that we have gone different ways mainly due to consistence of unconvincing results and he personally conceded before deciding to leave for the betterment of the club. "Our target now is to have his successor prior to our next match on March 12th as recommended by the rules and regulations which govern football in the country," he said. He then disclosed that before the start of the season, they agreed that the club's target was to finish in the top three during this campaign as such, the club did its part to give him (Maxime) everything needed to attain the set up objective. "Currently, the target to end on top three seems to be fading away in response to the poor results we have had so far. As such, it was him (Maxime) and his entire technical bench to agree ending working relationship. "You may recall that last season, we had to stay put in the league courtesy of playoffs and we do not want to repeat the same feat this season hence we hope that by terminating the contract, things will improve for the team," he noted. He therefore wished Maxime all the best during his new challenges of his profession elsewhere while describing him as a good coach who has proved his worth for the long period he served Mtibwa Sugar. "Our target to finish on top three was achievable this season because we brought in new players to reinforce the team in both transfer windows but still, no changes of improvement in terms of good results were seen," he narrated. However, unconfirmed reports have linked former Taifa Stars Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije as the one likely to replace Maxime at the club.