NMB Bank in Southern Zone has donated iron sheets worth 5.0m/- to supplement government’s efforts in renovating children’s ward in Ligula Regional Referral Hospital in Mtwara. The donation was handed over by the bank’s management over the weekend to the Mtwara District Commissioner, Dunstan Kyobya who in turn thanked the lender for the continued support to improve health and other services for ‘wananchi’ in the country. Receiving the donation on behalf of the DC, Mtwara District Administrative Secretary (DAS), Thomas Salala said the donation will help in speeding up the renovation process of the children’s ward that kicked off last year. “The donation has come at the right time when the hospital is in dire need of such support to renovate various buildings, including the children ward towards improving the provision of health services to our people,” he said. Mr Salala said that NMB has always been in the forefront in supporting the government and ‘wananchi’ in the improvement of various community services, including health and education. The DAS said the government is working to ensure improved health facilities are put in line to improve the provision of services in Ligula and other health facilities in Mtwara. He urged health experts in Ligula Hospital to be committed in providing services to the citizens as the government works towards improving health facilities and other infrastructures. NMB Zone official, Janeth Shango said the donation was part of the bank’s support to help improve the provision of health services in Ligula Hospital. “The donation is part of our responsibility to support the surrounding communities whenever there is need,” she said. Ligula’s doctor in-charge, Dr Lobikieki Kissambu said during the event that the hospital is currently conducting renovation of various buildings in the hospital, including children’s ward. He said some 3.6bn/- is required to support the work. “The renovation of the children’s ward has been completed by 50 per cent, the NMB donation is a step ahead to support the renovation,” he said, noting that the revamping of the children ward is set to cost 24.8m/-.