THE Confederation of African Football (CAF) has dismissed Al Merrikh complaints against Simba SC regarding coronavirus tests that were done before a Champions League encounter in Dar es Salaam. In the encounter at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on March 16th this year, Simba emerged with a resounding 3-0 victory. However, the Sudanese launched complaints to CAF, contesting the Covid-19 tests outcome, where eight of their players had tested positive before the match. Results indicated Abdelrahman Isaac, Bakhit Khamis, Ahmed Abdelmoneim, Tajeddin Yaqoub, Ramadan Ajab, Tony Edjomariegwe, Bakri Al Madina, and Saif Ad Damazin were Covid-19 positive. Yesterday CAF responded to the Secretary General of Sudan Football Association on the complaint filed by Al Merrikh through a letter issued and signed by the Chairman of CAF Disciplinary Board, Raymond Hack last Sunday. The letter stated, “We acknowledge receipt of the complaint of El Merrikh club dated 21st March 2021, as well as the correspondence of your lawyer Mr Ahmed Abbass El Hag and his power of attorney.” “We would like to hereby confirm that Al Merrikh’s complaint regarding match no.101 of the Total CAF Champions League is well received, however as per the current rules and procedures, the FAQs for the return of Football clearly states that, “The mandatory PCR test should be conducted no earlier than 48 hours before the match participants access the stadium.” “The tests conducted before the match are the official ones that are taken into consideration for the eligibility of the players. As you are aware, the results of the tests can vary from one day to the other.” The letter further identified that several players from Simba were also tested positive as well as some CAF officials. It continued, “We would like to also hereby inform you that CAF has made some investigations regarding testing procedures in Tanzania and the investigations revealed that the laboratory does not issue or print any certification for positive Covid-19 cases.” “Certification is only provided for the negative cases. The positive cases are communicated through the established channels for various individuals and organisations.” Simba, who are at the top of group A need only a single point to book a place into the quarterfinals of the CAF Champions League. The Reds have remained with two games to wind up the group campaign. Simba will host Congo DR AS Vita on Saturday at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium before travelling to Cairo, Egypt to face defending champions Al Ahly. Al Ahly sit second on seven points, while AS Vita have bagged four points. Meanwhile, Simba Head Coach, Didier Gomes urged all his players, who have been in international assignments with their national teams, to rejoin the squad immediately to prepare for the clash against AS Vita. The players who were with the national team are Aishi Manula, Shomari Kapombe, Mohammed Hussein, Kennedy Juma, Erasto Nyoni, Jonas Mkude, Mzamiru Yassin, Hassan Dilunga and John Bocco who were in the national team, Taifa Stars.