TANZANIA’s envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup Namungo FC continued their stuttering start to the continental second tier group stage campaign after conceding a 2-0 defeat at home to Pyramids of Egypt. The loss at the Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam was Hemed Selemani team's second defeat in a row after an opening 1-0 loss away to Raja Casablanca in Group D. Big-spending Pyramids scored their two goals in the second half to maintain their perfect start to the group stage matches, strengthening their group lead with 6 points. The Egyptian side had eased to a 3-0 win over Zambian side Nkana  in Cairo  last week. Nkana later on Wednesday night was scheduled to host Raja Casablanca in Zambia. Pyramids' heroes were Mohamed Farouk, who scored for his club in the 71st minute from the spot-kick before creating an assist for Omar Gaber to seal their victory in the 86th minute of the game. Pyramids FC were the quickest out of the blocks and went close to notching the opener in the 7th minute of the game through their right footed forward Mahmoud Hamada, whose shot was saved by Namungo custodian Jonathan Nahimana while one on one with the goalie. Ramadan Sobhi was a thorn in Namungo’s defence as he often asked questions of the home defenders with pace and trickery. He could have put his name on the scoresheet as early as in the 9th minute after breaking into the box only for his goal-bound shot to be blocked by Namungo’s defenders. Namungo’s slow start to the encounter allowed the visitors to enjoy the lion’s share of possession, but their wastefulness in front of goal saved the home team. Shiza Kichuya attempted a decent effort from the set piece but saw his shot saved before crossing the line in the bottom left corner. Stephen Sey rushed to the rebound but his shot was blocked as Namungo grew into the game. Abdulhalim Humoud unleashed a piledrive from outside but his shot flew high and wide. Four minutes before the breather Pyramids threatened again when  Ahmed Tawfik’s cross found Ali Gabr in the box, but his powerful header narrowly missed the target. Sey squandered two great chances for Namungo in the 56th and 58th minutes after being set up by Lucas Kikoti. Namungo have been guilty of conceding so many penalties in their international games and Kalos Kirenge gave away one in the 71st minute with a reckless challenge against Mohamed Farouk. Sobhi stepped up and expertly dispatched the spot kick for Pyramids’ opener. With six minutes of regular time remaining, Omar Gaber wrapped up the score for Pyramids, completing a fine pass from Mohamed Farouk.