ZANZIBAR Second Vice President, Hemed Suleiman Abdulla has called upon national leaders and the general public to unite and uphold all that the late President John Magufuli has accomplished and dreamed about. He said this on Thursday while addressing Chato residents who flocked at Magufuli ground in Geita region to pay their last respects to the fallen gallant son of Africa who died of chronic atrial fibrillation at Mzena hospital in Dar es Salaam on March 17, this year. Mr Abdulla said the late Dr Magufuli was an outstanding leader with a big vision for the nation, insisting that his departure is a difficult thing for Tanzania and even the African continent. “Dr Magufuli ensured that he impacted every group and sector in our country, he leaves an indelible mark in every area starting from revenue collection, education sector, health and many other places where he served the nation patriotically. It is our responsibility to uphold his legacy,” he said. He added, “My fellow Tanzanians, let’s continue to be united and keep on building our nation. Dr Magufuli has shown us the way, he has left this nation safe and with great respect, we have witnessed him leading the nation to attain the middle-income status ahead of time (2025), his legacy will continue to live forever and ever.” Mr Abdulla said if Tanzanians continue to work together a lot will be accomplished. He said for Tanzanians to honour the departed iconic leader well they should continue implementing his policies of hardworking, honest, fighting corruption and embracing patriotism in the interest of the nation. “If we continue to do this we will continue to pay homage to this nation,” he remarked. Expounding further, he said President Samia Suluhu Hassan has assured the nation that nothing will go wrong, thus it is crucial to continue giving her cooperation, advise her well and continue to be patriotic to the nation. Dr Magufuli who was first elected President of the United Republic of Tanzania in 2015 before winning his second term last October, will be laid to rest today in his hometown, Chato. Thursday’s exercise concludes a week-long activity of bidding farewell to the fallen leader that commenced at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, extended to Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma, Aman Karume Stadium in Zanzibar and at the CCM Kirumba in Mwanza. During the state funeral held in Dodoma on Monday in Dodoma Heads of State and government described the late Magufuli as a special leader who not only loved his country but Africa in general. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogised Dr Magufuli as the man who showed that Africa can succeed without having to depend on foreign aid, a distinguishingly pan-African approach adopted by the departed leader.