POLICE in Arusha have arrested two people, including a Chinese national, for allegedly abducting a person of Chinese descent and demanding US$ 100,000 for his release. The abductors took the Chinese national to unknown places before demanding the said amount of money. Arusha Regional Police Commander Justine Masejo said in a statement that the incident happened on March 7, this year. The report of abduction was released by a fellow Chinese worker, one Lian Qiang, (44), who works with Bonanza Company. He told the police that his fellow worker disappeared in unknown circumstances. The abducted person was at work in Karatu District with a driver in a vehicle – Toyota Kluger -- with registration number T571 DLQ, property of the Bonanza Company. Qiang received a mobile phone message that he should send US$ 100,000 to the abductors so that his fellow may be set free. After getting the report, the police took swift action to determine the abductors and were successful in identifying and locating the same. Their names are withheld for investigative reasons. However, Masejo noted that one of the abductors was working with the Bonanza Company but has since been sacked for reasons related to indiscipline. The suspects were found in a lodge located at Ada Estate, Kinondoni District, in Dar es Salaam, with the abductee’s legs and hands bound. The statement further said that the police found a vehicle – Toyota Kluger with registration number T982 DQA that was stolen in Arusha on February 8, this year. The suspects were also found with other things such as two knives, a hammer, a drill machine, five power cables belonging to the Bonanza Company. Also, the vehicle that they travelled with from Arusha to Dar es Salaam was found abandoned at Clock Tower, near Exim Bank within the City of Dar es Salaam. Masejo said that after completion of investigations the respective file will be sent to the Office of Director of Public Prosecution for more legal proceedings. He appealed to the public to volunteer any information that would lead to avert crimes or to arrest criminals.