SOUTH African President Cyril Ramaphosa paid his tribute to President John Magufuli yesterday at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma and applauded him as a vital pillar in building a prosperous economy for Tanzanians and Africa as a continent. President Ramaphosa made these remarks during the state funeral of Tanzania’s iconic leader where African leaders attended. In his speech, he told Tanzanians that they had many reasons to be proud and grateful as he loved them dearly. “I want to thank him (Dr Magufuli) for focusing more on the economic development of his country, and indeed of the continent as well.To ensure his nation attains development he actively fought against corruption and created a notion that a leader should serve the people and not his personal interests,” stressed President Ramaphosa. He further stressed that Dr Magufuli not only fought against corruption, but also made sure his leaders remained accountable to their people. “President Magufuli stood out as a fighter against corruption. He was one of the new generation leaders on our continent who waged war on corruption and who believed that leaders should work for their people and not for themselves,” explained President Ramaphosa. In his speech, he narrated a discussion President Magufuli had with him when he flew to South Africa during his inauguration ceremony where they had an opportunity to discuss visions of the development of Tanzania, SADC region and the continent. President Ramaphosa explained that he was curious to understand why President Magufuli was not a great traveller, but after paying a visit to Tanzania he witnessed an impressive work done, therefore, realised he stayed home to serve his people. “I felt honoured because President Magufuli was not a great traveller. He did not like travelling very much. He preferred to stay home. I often thought that he possibly was afraid of flying in a plane, but he told me he preferred to be here to continue serving the people of Tanzania to travelling outside the country. “I can now see that indeed he stayed home to serve you the people of Tanzania because the work he has done and what has left behind is quite impressive as one listens to a report of the things he has done. So, you were a very lucky nation to have a President like Dr Magufuli.” He further acknowledged President Magufuli as an evangelist who wanted everyone on the African continent to speak Kiswahili. Thus, when he paid him a visit in South Africa he brought him a box with Kiswahili books. He portrayed Dr Magufuli as a true Pan-Africanist who believed that “the culture and traditions of our forebears were remembered, taught and embraced.” “My brother, I will make it a point that I teach you Kiswahili myself,” he quoted Dr Magufuli. “It is indeed so sad knowing President Magufuli’s dreams have not yet been fulfilled. At last he left us before he could teach me the best Kiswahili, I could speak,” said President Ramaphosa. To acknowledge his love for Kiswahili, South Africa gave him (Dr Magufuli) a gift that was to introduce and teach Kswahili in schools to honour him.