TANZANIA sports fraternity continues to mourn the sudden demise of the late President John Magufuli and the latest include condolences from basketball stars who play professionally outside the country. The condolences messages came from the national basketball members Sudi Ulanga and Amin Mkosa, who like many Tanzanians said they have been shocked with the death news of President Magufuli who died on March 17, 2021. Ulanga, who plays for UCU Canons from the Uganda National Basketball League (NBL) said President Magufuli’s death has left him very sad. He said he actually still doesn't believe that the President has gone. Ulanga said: “For the first time in my entire life, I was very hopeful because of him, my condolences go towards fellow Tanzanians, Magufuli family and friends.” “And my hope is that President Mama Samia Hassan Suluhu continues from where the late Magufuli left,” added Ulanga. Mkosa who landed a three years contract to serve the Malawian basketball giants, Bravehearts where he is also offered Marketing Degree scholarship, added that death is created for human beings and by God, it is reference to humanity. “Though this death of President Magufuli has shocked and frightened me, it extinguishes light of the souls of many Tanzanians as we had hoped to see his dreams for several years to come true. “Here in Malawi our friends call every Tanzanian by the name of Magufuli regardless of your gender. It has grown like a beautiful story that has been cut short and never ended.” Mkosa stated that he feels so lonely to be experiencing such a national tragedy while is out of the country. He said that the souls of Tanzanians are anxious while hearts are filled with great sorrow. He added: “It is a great blow to us as athletes because he first grew up to make sports more valuable in the country by putting leaders he trusted could go with his speed in performance, but God decided all, we can do nothing than thank Him for Magufuli life.” Mkosa stressed that he believes that all the leaders who have worked with the deceased, know and recognise their responsibilities and the value of their performance to our society and our country so have no doubt at all and believe they will take the country far. He also used the opportunity to congratulate the new President, Samia Hassan Suluhu. Mkosa said: “I also want to congratulate President Mama Samia Suhuhu for being the first woman to be the president of our beautiful country.”