A PROGRAMME has been launched to support science students in form five and form six secondary schools to apply their scientific knowledge in addressing problems through creation of science-based business enterprises. The programme is dubbed ‘Future STEM Business Leaders (FSBL), where STEM stands for Science, Technology Engineering and Mathematics. “FSBL aims to inspire and equip students' ability to love science subjects and turning their discoveries into an opportunity to start business. This is specifically aiming at empowering students studying science, specifically physics who have been discovering different things in practical during studies,” said Dr Amos Nungu, the Director General of the Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH). Mr Nungu who was officiating the launch of FSBL in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, insisted that the programme has come at the right time when the world is growing rapidly in terms of technology and adapting digital systems like the introduction of aircraft not using pilots, cars without a driver and the likes. “FSBL project has come at the right time to prepare young people to love science and encourage them to think about how to use that education to solve challenges in society.” For her part, the COSTECH’s Project Manager, Ms Josephine Sepeku clarified that the programme which stared in 2017 is managed by COSTECH’s Dar Teknohama Business Incubator (DTBi), through financial support from the Institute of Physics (IOP) of the United Kingdom and is driven by local business enterprises. She said that currently building the capacity of secondary school teachers and students started in Dar es Salaam and Arusha regions. “Best projects done by students from selected schools will be reviewed. The students will be brushed with skills in the areas of business, entrepreneurship, management and marketing,” she said. She added that after garnering such skills, the students will be attached for an internship in correlating business enterprises, after which, they would be ready to start their own production, earn income and create jobs for other people. “FSBL will see students apply their education to meet long-term goals and facilitate a sustainable national programme that addresses the challenges facing the next generation in Tanzania,” she said. Paulina Haule is one of the beneficiaries of this programme, where she was able to use the secondary school laboratory to discover an environmental friendly mosquito repellent. “Together with some classmates at Jangwani secondary school we discovered an electric mosquito repellent using waves, it uses no chemicals, it doesn’t kill mosquitoes, but it simply chases them away, which later becomes food for other insects.” Ms Haule said that plans are in place to put her discovery in the market after more renovation has been made. According to Ms Sepeku, other participating institutions in FSBL programme are the University of Dar es salaam and Arusha Technical College.