IN patriarchal societies men are traditionally considered superior to women and this may affect their future prospects. Accordingly, women and girls seem to be behind men and boys in many aspects. It’s clear that girls face obstacles to their education, including unaffordable school fees, families privileging boy education, expectations of hours of household chores and being responsible for young siblings, and high dropout rates due to early pregnancy. It is even more difficult for girls living in rural areas where pupils have to walk long distances to and from school. Born in a poor family, at a village called Ifwagi, in Iringa Region, Ms Joyce Kalinga, a former student at Mdabulo Secondary School in Iringa Region and former high school student at Kilakala Secondary School in Morogoro recounts how she realised her dream in leadership by believing in herself. Her road to a successful story has been filled with ups and downs, smiles and frowns. “I remember, suffering from different diseases that made me remain at home for four continuous years, but my dream was to focus on my education and empower the girl child, something I never gave up. After I recovered, I went back to school to start my ordinary level classes, when my colleagues were already in high school. Knowing that they are in high school didn’t discourage me at all,” she says. While at college, she didn’t have the luxury of going back home for holidays due to lack of transport money, so she decided to help slash grass in a garden at Morogoro Teachers College, cleaning utensils, and receiving guests from the Tanzania Examinations Board. Her work paid off as she managed to raise her college fee for the next semester. “I remember how  former chairman of the Tanzania Teachers Service Commission Oliver Mhaiki, who agreed that I stay at the college during holidays. He realised my determination and later on in my career signed my letter after being promoted to the post of head teacher,” she says. “I urge girls that regardless the obstacles or challenges that one is facing, they should never give up their dreams.” This role model to many of her students at Mkalala Secondary School started with a Form One class with no teacher to help her in 2008, of which she managed to teach students all required subjects without the help of any teacher at the same time being headmistress to a school with a single class, nine months later new teachers were assigned to teach at the school. A degree holder in education, no one believed in Ms Kalinga, as her communities believed she would  never make it in leadership, as they believed it was a male dominated society. Ms Kalinga is among the few arising stars at Mninga Village in Mafinga District, who was spotted at this years’ UN Women and Unilever tea company’s celebration of International Women’s Day held at Mkalala Secondary School grounds located at Mninga Village and graced by Mufindi District Commissioner Jamhuri David William. “I walked a few kilometres to get to school. My village and some of my relatives didn’t show any support to my education apart from my parents and my elder brother. I believe if you are determined to work hard without giving up, you can achieve your goals,” she says. She believes that a woman is a powerful person, who if she doesn’t give up, can reach a higher level in future. Ms Kalinga has been head teacher for 12 years and encourages girls to take science subjects due to opportunities attached to them. “I encourage girls at my school that in every step they want to make in life they should look up to women leaders in the country not all of them have come from a silver spoon, some of them have worked so hard to get to where they are today.” UN Women works closely with Mufindi District Council throughout an awareness campaign to promote gender equality, empower women in Mufindi District and its villages surrounding it, knowledge on the protection of women and girls against different forms of violence, the provision of sexual and child abuse services, education on various rights and laws, and entrepreneurship education and credit for different women groups. It’s more than a decade of celebrating International Women’s Day of which many women celebrate it in March. Meanwhile, Mr Jamhuri David William congratulated women on celebrating International Women’s Day, saying they should continue setting an example to their daughters who would be the leaders of tomorrow. “I urge women of all walks of life to never stop trying to climb the ladder to the top in all leadership positions being in public or private sectors,” she says. Since President John Magufuli’s government offers free education in the country, members of the public should not let the girl child stay at home, waiting to get married while the boy child is left to finish his education. Ms Kalinga is an iron lady who fought all odds that could have pulled her down. This is a month where every woman is celebrated differently due to their hard work and contribution to different sectors of the economy.