NMB Bank over the weekend donated various materials to support the education and health sector in various councils of Mara, Manyara, Singida, Ruvuma and Mtwara regions all more than 70m/- The materials, which included tables, chairs, desks, iron sheets, timber, nails and beds for boarding schools were all donated with the aim of improving service delivery in the sectors. In Mbulu Municipal Council and Mbulu Rural in Manyara Region, the bank donated 50 tables and 50 seats to Masiende and Gehandu Secondary Schools valued at 10m/-. According to Mbulu Municipal Council, Hudson Kamoga the items will ease learning activities in the schools and enable their managements to accommodate students, who could missed places as a result of walking more than 10 km from Gunyoda Secondary School that has not started operations. Mr Kamoga further said: “This Masiende School is new and it has not yet opened, and the students who were selected to come here had to go to Gunyoda because the school did not have the infrastructures, but with the help of NMB this school is going to open and these students will not walk more than 10 kilometers.” The items were handed over by the bank’s Central Zone Manager Nsolo Mlozi, saying the donated items will save the students from walking long distances. In the Mara region, the bank has provided equipment for education infrastructure worth 11.5 m/- to 2 schools in Tarime district council and Tarime town. The materials were provided as iron sheets, wood and nails for roofing Nyamwino Primary School in Tarime town and 50 desks for Nyamumbara Primary School in Tarime District Council. Handing over the equipment to the Tarime District Commissioner, Engineer Mtemi Msafiri, NMB Lake Region Bank Manager, Baraka Laduslaus, said the donation was part of giving back to the community. He said the government has been making great efforts in managing education and they as a bank felt tasked to support the authority’s efforts. Receiving the items, Tarime DC Eng Msafiri, thanked the bank for the support, saying they will keenly safeguard them. In Iramba District in Singida Region, NMB provided 100 desks for Kisiriri and Tyegelo Primary Schools, while Kisiriri Secondary School also receiving 50 beds all worth 22m/-. Receiving the equipment, the Iramba District Administrative Secretary, Pius Sangoma urged teachers to take care of the items for other generations to also benefit from them. In Mtwara Region NMB has donated 105 iron sheets worth 5m/- to Ligula Referral Hospital in Mtwra Region to help rehabilitate the Children’s Ward. The hospital’s superintendent, Dr. Robikieki Kisambu thanked the bank for the support, saying the assistance will rehabilitate and address deteriorating infrastructure and meet the institution’s demands Presenting the items, NMB Southern Region Manager Janeth Chango who said the donation was a show that the bank supports in the government in offering quality health care to the community. In Ruvuma Region the donated 60 iron sheets to Legele Primary School, 80 desks to Mshanganokati, besides 21 tables, 21 chairs and four cupboards to Chandamali Primary School all valued at 12 m/- in Songea Municipality, Ruvuma region. Acting Songea District Commissioner Pendo Ndumbaro immediately after receiving the donation said the bank ended Mshanganokati Primary School desks’ shortage, adding: “The bank has provided 50 desks to Nguluma Secondary School and 25 beds to Gumbiro Secondary School all valued at 10 m/- and we thank the bank for providing additional assistance to schools and health centers, which stressed the bank’s supports to the government.”