FINANCIAL inclusion has gained momentum as a key contributing factor to unlock rural youth potential and push for sustainable and inclusive rural transformation. The 2017 FinScope Tanzania report identified rural young women and men from 16 to 24 years as the most financially excluded population, with 45 per cent not having taken up any formal or informal financial service. Financial inclusion seeks to ensure that all individuals and businesses have access to and can effectively use appropriate and high quality formal financial services to improve their lives. To empower the Tanzanian youth in rural areas there is need for financial services to help the rural youth build assets and become better prepared to face increasing financial demand. Youth access to rural finance has become a central concern for poverty reduction strategies. Financial services such as savings, loans and insurance are essential tools young people need to start an enterprise and increase productivity. Increasing rural youth financial inclusion has been a key challenge and increasing rural young women’s financial inclusion is especially important as they are disproportionally disadvantaged. Access to and use of quality financial products and services is essential for inclusive economic growth and poverty reduction in the country. The age, gender, school enrolment and family situation shape young people’s needs and preferences for financial services. However, there are universal life transitions that place similar types of financial pressure on young people, including going to school, working, getting married, having children and taking care of elderly family members. Youth savings groups, through their group structure, can help the rural youth build assets and financial capability and have the potential to develop long-term savings habits. Recognising the important role of the multiple drivers of change in the rural transformation process and the large population of the rural youth facing new opportunities and challenges, affordable and friendly rural financial services could offer best solutions. Investments in youth financial services should focus largely on savings and as a result most of the evidence on sustainability and scalability is limited to savings products. There is a great need to finance a variety of youth financial products, especially loans, insurance and remittances. With new evidence available on the bankability of young people, and the persistent gap between the supply of youth financial services and the demand, it is important that more is still needed to increase investment in rural financial services.