TANZANIA Institute of Accountancy Student Allu Murugwa and three other young people appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam on Thursday charged with two counts of trafficking in 30.6kg of heroin and 2.63 grams of bhang, which are narcotic drugs. Allu was charged alongside Said Mbasha and Fatuma Shomari, both residents of Kinondoni A and Joseph Dalidali, alias Blessing, who resides at Mbezi Beach. They were not allowed to enter any plea to the charges because the case had been filed under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. In the circumstances, Senior Resident Magistrate in charge Godfrey Isaya informed the accused persons that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the case, including granting bail. He ordered them to remain in remand until March 24, 2021, when the case would be mentioned. The prosecution, led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, informed the court that investigations into the case had not been completed. It is alleged that the accused persons committed the offences on March 3, 2021 in different places in Dar es Salaam City. According to the prosecution, on the material day at Kijitonyama in Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam Region, all accused persons were found trafficking in heroin, which is a narcotic drug, weighing 30.6kg. The court heard that on the same day along Kinondoni Kasaba Street in the region, Mbasha and Fatuma were found trafficking in a narcotic drug, namely cannabis sativa (bhang), weighing 2.63 grammes. Their arraignment came few days after the four accused persons were held by the Anti-Drugs Unit (ADU) of the Police Force of Tanzania. ADU Head Hassan Kabeleke announced the arrest of the accused persons at a press conference in Dar es Salaam on March 9, 2021. He told reporters that on March 3, 2021 the Police Force had been tipped off that a suspect identified as Said Mbasha was involved in illicit drug business. Mr Kabaleke said after pursuing the matter they found out that Mbasha had a special group that received and sold the drugs and he was with two lovers identified as Allu who had rented a room for her at Kijitonyama and Fatuma, who he rented a room for her at Kinondoni A. According to him, he arranged a special squash of detectives to arrest the suspects and the mission was successful as Allu was found in her room with 31 packets of heroin weighing 30.6kg, while Mbasha and Fatuma were found in their room with three rolls of bhang. The ADU boss also disclosed that the two accused persons were found with 12,261,000/- and $14,000 alleged to have been obtained after selling the narcotic drugs. Nothing was found in possession of Dalidali, but was arrested as was also linked with the illicit trade. He also told reporters that all accused persons admitted to have been involved in drug trafficking. During investigation it was also discovered that the drugs were smuggled into the country from Mozambique via illegal routes. “There is a Tanzanian who resides in Mozambique and is the one who smuggled the drugs. His name is withheld as efforts to arrest him are underway so that legal action can be taken against him,” the ADU boss said and appealed to citizens to refrain from engaging in illegal businesses.