AS the world marks the International Women’s Day (IWD) today, Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan has appealed to teachers, parents and guardians to encourage and support girls to develop interest in studying science subjects so that they could fit in this rapidly changing scientific age. She made the call during a fundraising gala held in Stone Town to support the girl child to study science subjects. A total of 32m/- was raised during the function. She commended the Forum for African Women Educationalists (FAWE) for organising the event, urging the organisation to ensure that Zanzibar women get their rights and contribute to the development of the country. She said FAWE has been doing a commendable job by ensuring girls are getting necessary support in education, economic empowerment and social rights. FAWE also collaborates with the Zanzibar Ministry of Education and Vocational Training to develop the girl child. Ms Samia said there is need to improve laws, policies and environment that would promote girls and enable them to excel in their areas of interests. She called for improvement of public awareness on the girl rights and set strategies and an enabling environment for them to exploit opportunities and serve the nation in the era of blue economy. Commenting on the misconceptions that exist in the community, she urged parents to abandon the concept of early marriage to allow girls to build their future through education. She said the training will open doors for self-employment and eliminate the perverted traditions in their communities. "We should believe and see that a girl can do many jobs including becoming scientists and engineers. Let us give them opportunities,” she said. On her side, the Zanzibar Minister of Education and Vocational Training Mr Simai Mohammed Said explained that the
government recognizes FAWE for its good work in promoting the girl child, especially in ensuring all girls receive education and various entrepreneurial trainings. The FAWE chairperson Dr Mwatima Abdalla said the forum will continue to take steps to ensure it liberates girls through education. "Through collaboration with the Ministry of Education in Zanzibar, we have succeeded to bring back to school a good number of girls who had dropped out due to various reasons. We believe education is a strong pillar in bringing changes in our communities,” she said. A student, Ms Amina Omar Kitwana, from Kijini Matemwe spoke on behalf of her fellow students that FAWE has helped them to return to school and acquire various entrepreneurial skills that help them to bring changes to their families. The theme for this year's International Women's Day is #ChooseToChallenge. It indicates that a "challenged world is an alert world, and from challenge comes change."