THE Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children has received accolades from a parliamentary committee for intensifying medical services as well as reducing the cost of accessing the services. The remark was made by the Chairman of a parliamentary Committee on Community Development, Stanslaus Nyongo during a meeting between members of parliament and experts from the ministry and its departments held in Dodoma. “I want to congratulate all the institutions under the ministry for observing patriotism in serving people's lives as well as reducing costs of referring people outside the country to access medical services, which could be offered in the country,’’ he stressed. Mr Nyongo gave an assurance that his committee will continue working together with the ministry to ensure Tanzanians get proper health services from competent health experts. He said the committee will also continue to push for improved health services so that the sector can attract medical tourism. Earlier when presenting a report for the Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI), the Institute’s Executive Director, Dr Julius Mwaiselage said a robust investment made by the government, including procurement of modern medical equipment and improving infrastructure at the institute had reduced cancer referrals outside the country from 164 patients in 2014/2015 to five patients in 2019/20. Dr Mwaiselage further said the new infrastructure at the facility had saved 10.4bn/- which would have been spent on sending 208 cancer patients outside the country. He further added that patients with cancer complications who were coming at ORCI from neighbouring countries had increased from 12 in 2014/2015 to 73 in 2019/2020, thus boosting revenues and enabling the hospital to save lives. “Because of advanced infrastructure at the State-of-the-art cancer treatment facility, the number of patients receiving treatment has increased from 170 per day to 270, equally, we have reduced time to receive x-ray treatment from six weeks in 2014/2015 to two weeks in 2019/2020, the time which is recommended globally. Presenting the report for Muhimbili Orthopedic Institute (MOI), Dr Vivina Wananji said for the past four years the institute has conducted 43,200 main surgeries at a cost of 16.5bn/-. If the surgeries had been conducted outside the country, the cost would have been up to 54.9bn/-, meaning MOI managed to save about 38.4b/-. Also, Dr Wanaji said the government has provided 7.9bn/- for the construction of Angio Suite Modern X-ray Lab. “This lab, for the first time started providing blood vessel diagnosis and treatment in the brain without opening up the skull,’’ noted Dr Wananji. In January 28, the first patient at MOI to undergo a brain nerve operation without his skull being opened up spoke out after recovering. Mr Hafidhi Saidi, who hails from Singida Region, was suffering from chronic daily headaches for a long time without knowing the real cause of his disorder.