WHEN China Commercial Bank (CCB) Limited started getting into the bad books of the Central Bank it culminated into its placement under statutory administration of the regulator last November, and most of its employees could only think of a bleak future. However, when NMB Bank acquired the troubled bank early this month and announced that it will employ them, they anxiously looked forward to joining its 3,400-strong workforce as the groom eagerly awaits the bride. It was all smiles for the 12 bankers on Monday when NMB formally drafted them making March 15 a day they will never forget in their lives since joining the most successful local bank and the largest financial institution in the country is more than a dream come true. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, their representative, Mr Phales Joseph Kiwanga, described the move to be like wishes becoming horses for them to ride. “Initially, we saw no light at the end of the tunnel since our ultimate fate remained unknown but we were elated after learning of NMB’s interest to acquire CCB since you are a formidable giant in the industry,” Mr Kiwanga said. “We thank the NMB management for timely completing the takeover of CCB since the move means a lot to us. We used to spend sleepless nights wondering what the future held for us but thank God you have employed us and we are grateful for that,” he added. The March 4 takeover of China Commercial Bank by NMB was necessitated by illiquidity and capital inadequacy of the Chinese lender. It also followed Bank of Tanzania’s determination that it was the appropriate resolution option to protect the interests of depositors, creditors and the whole financial sector. Throughout the colourful function to welcome the new workers at NMB head office in Dar es Salaam, their faces glittered with sparks of joy and hardly could they hide the big expectations they have being part of the sectoral leader and quality service champion. Emotionally motivated, they equally expressed and showed all signs of readiness to diligently work for their new employer and committedly serve the over four million customers of the top lender in Tanzania. And that is exactly what CEO Ruth Zaipuna meant when she briefly profiled what makes NMB the banking giant it is. “You have joined the safest bank in the country, which is the market leader in terms of assets, balance sheet, profitability, branch network and quality banking solutions in the industry,” she said noting that currently NMB has 226 branches throughout the country that are in almost every district.