AS part of the deliberate measures to induce patriotism among the younger generation, the National Service (JKT) plans to extend military training for A-level graduates from the current three months to one year. The extended youth training at National Service, as per the requirement of the law, among Form Six leavers is envisaged to cultivate the highest degree of patriotism in youths, Chief of National Service, Major General Charles Mbuge said during his marathon working tour of the army's strategic projects of agriculture, pastoralism and fishing in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region. Speaking at JKT's 837 Milundika Camp, Maj Gen Mbuge said that the army had already convened a series of dialogues with several stakeholders including ministries and other public institutions so as to reach a mutual agreement on that matter. Since Monday this week, Maj Gen Mbuge has been on a week-long tour on several camps that are implementing flagship projects on agriculture, pastoralism and fishing. They include Mafinga's 841 KJ, Mbeya's 844KJ at Itende, 847 KJ Milundiwa in Rukwa and 837 KJ at Chita in Morogoro region, among others. According to the CNS, upon completion of the process, the army will immediately implement the proposed plan. He expressed optimism that by having a year-long training, youth would be in position to have enough time to be trained in patriotism, hardworking and discipline. "Prior to revival of training to form six graduates as per the requirement of the law in 2013, the same training was being provided in the previous years for a period of one year. The months were later reduced to six month and later three months," he said, adding that JKT's assessment found out that the period is not sufficient enough to provide essential training to the youth. Maj Gen Mbuge said youth were a major workforce in the army which has served a huge amount of money which can be channeled in other development projects and provision of social services. He said youth in JKT were performing duties that would have been spent from the state coffers. The National Service Chief revealed that on average the army was recruiting over 30,000 youths from across the country who were being trained in various work studies which they later applied to employ themselves after completing training. Three months are not enough that is why we are still consulting authorities in the government to request for approval of the plan. National Service Acting Head of Administration, Colonel Hassan Mabena, said the major aim of the envisaged plan was to change attitudes of youth joining JKT, who often join the training with the expectations that they would acquire employment. "We want them to be culturally rooted and ideologically aware that this is a college to learn various skills including patriotism which will help them to employ themselves, therefore we believe that one year training will be enough to give them all necessary skills," said Col Mabena who doubles as JKT's Chairman of the Committee for Strategic Agriculture, Pastoralism and Fishing. According to Col Mabena, there are almost 70,000 youths countrywide who graduate in advanced level education, therefore the new plan will be successful to prepare the workforce for the nation.