THE two-day meeting of Southern African Development Community (SADC) Council of Ministers kicked off yesterday in Dar es Salaam, during which recommendation and adoption of Kiswahili as an official medium of communication at sectoral level in the bloc is slated to be in the agenda. The move comes a year after the language was adopted as the fourth official language of the regional body alongside English, French and Portuguese at the 39th Ordinary Summit of SADC Heads of State and Government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, disclosed this on the sidelines of the SADC Ministerial meeting which began virtually yesterday. Prof Kabudi observed that formerly Kiswahili was adopted at the level of council of ministers and summit of Head of State and now it has been dropped down to the level of sectors. “This implies that during sectorial meetings such as education, health, infrastructure and ICT, among others Kiswahili can be used as a medium of communication,” said Prof Kabudi. He pointed out that the language issue is among key three areas in the meeting focusing directly on Tanzania. The other area is the 40th commemoration for the establishment of SADC. According to the Minister, this year SADC marks its 40 years since it was established from the then Southern African Development Co-ordination Conference (SADCC). He noted that the commemorations will involve various activities, including debates on various topics, television programs and workshops. Expounding further with regard to the commemorations, the Minister expressed the gravity of the commemorations for Tanzania, taking into account that one of the eight founders of SADC is the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere at a meeting which convened in 1979 in Arusha Region. “Tanzania will participate fully in the commemorations of the 40 years of SADC, bearing in mind that Kiswahili is going to be used at all levels of the SADC meetings and the Statue of Mwalimu Nyerere being placed at the Amani Building in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia,” he noted. On the other hand, the SADC Executive Secretary, Dr Stergomena Tax revealed that in March 2020, Council Decisions were successfully implemented at an implementation rate of 95 per cent. As for the August 2020 Summit Decisions, she identified a total of 13 Decisions which were fully implemented, out of the 26 Decisions, representing 50 per cent completion rate, noting that the remaining decisions are long term in nature, and implementation is ongoing. She, however, highlighted the 2020/2021 annual corporate plan whereby a 79 per cent implementation rate was recorded for April to December 2020. The implementation rate is lower by 5 percentage points compared to 84 per cent recorded during the same period in financial year 2019/20, and is attributed to challenges posed by Covid-19. She went on to reveal that progress was also recorded in preparation and implementation of priority transmission projects aimed at interconnecting Angola, Malawi and Tanzania to the Southern African Power Pool (SAPP) network. Likewise, in power generation projects aimed at enhancing security of energy supply in the Region, 2,480 MW in 2020, which is about 77 per cent of the targeted capacity of 3,215 MW were commissioned. “Construction of large power generation projects also progressed during the year, whereby the Julius Nyerere hydropower project in Tanzania with capacity of 2,115 MW is expected to be commissioned in June 2022,” She said. Dr Tax expressed concern on the low growth rate of the industrialisation drive, calling on speeding up of value chains in priority areas and encouraging the private sector to take advantage of the value chains. This is also meant to accelerate initiatives to enhance capacities and capabilities of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), so as to benefit SADC citizens in terms of employment and wealth creation.