TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) has reminded all regional basketball bodies to ensure they organise and finish their leagues (RBA) by June this year. TBF secretary general, Michael Mwita said over the weekend that the federation has given regions between February and June this year to have organised and concluded their leagues. Mwita said: “I want to take this opportunity to remind all regions to make sure that from February to June they must have staged and concluded their RBAs. “I also want to remind them to finalise registration of respective clubs, players, coaches, referees and other matches officials through TBF map website on time,” he said. Mwita insisted for officials to adhere to all instructions so as to help the federation’s activities run smoothly. However, he said that this year’s National Basketball League (NBL) zonal play-off will be staged between June and July. He said that NBL pooled regions into eight zones as planned and expected all zones to organise their respective events for the development of players and the game. “The NBL play-off’s last 16 will be held in August 2021. The event among others will identify Tanzania representatives in the 2022 BAL (Basketball Africa League) and Fiba zone V,” he said. The 2021 representatives are Kurasini Heat who won the title in the last year’s league. Kurasini Heat will be the second team after JKT, the previous country’s representative in the prestigious and the recently introduced BAL that brings together top Africa teams. He noted that the Fiba Zone V Club Championship BAL is scheduled to be held between October and November 2021. Kurasini Heat are also the defending champions of the Dar Es Salaam RBA League after winning the last year’s league, though this time around they will miss one of their top players; Amin Mkosa who has signed a three-year contract with Malawian giant Bravehearts. According to Mwita the Basketball National Cup once again is scheduled to be held in the country’s Capital Dodoma and this time around it will be staged in September. He also said that the federation is prepared to send envoys in the Fiba Afrobasket qualifiers that will be held between August and October in Kigali, Rwanda.