THE East African Business Council (EABC) has showered praise upon the appointment of its Chief Executive Officer Dr Peter Mathuki to become the East African Community (EAC) Secretary General. A statement released by the EABC said that Dr Mathuki has been instrumental in implementing the turn-around strategy of the Council under the vision of a borderless East Africa for increased business and investment. “He has spearheaded many international, continental and regional high-level public-private dialogues aimed at resolving bottlenecks hindering the growth of intra-EAC trade and investment such as the High-Level East African Business and Investment 2019,” the Council said in its statement. His diplomatic leadership improved recognition of the role of the private sector in the EAC from Observer Status to True Partner of the EAC regional integration agenda. He has taken part in continental and international negotiations where he successfully pushed for the formation of the African Business Council. Dr Mathuki has been vital pushing for business and economic resilience of the EAC bloc amid the Covid-19 pandemic, resolving Non-Tariff Barriers in the region and repositioning the EAC bloc to reap the benefits availed by the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). “The business community joins his efforts and vision of steering intra-EAC trade to greater heights in his new role as the Secretary-General of the East African Community,” EABC said. Dr Mathuki is an expert in regional integration and has served in several regional organisations. He formerly served as a Member of Parliament of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA), where he chaired the EALA Committee responsible for good governance and served in the Committee of Communication, Trade and Investment (CTI). He previously served as a Director in charge of International Labour Standards (ILO) at the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU-Africa which later became ITUC-Africa) and later in the European Union (EU) programmes for Africa based in Asmara, Eritrea. He sits in several boards such as the Kenya Investment Authority (Ken Invest), Nairobi, Kenya, Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA), Kampala, Uganda and Centre of Excellence for ICT in east Africa (CENIT@EA) located at the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST) in Arusha, Tanzania. He is also a member of the Kenya Institute of Management (KIM). Dr Mathuki is passionate about regional integration and has played a vital role in the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and the formation of the African Business Council. He was equally instrumental in the negotiation of the EAC Common Market Protocol and Regional economic issues since 2004. He strongly supported the formation of various EAC platforms; instrumental in the EAC regional integration process. These platforms include the formation of East African Labour and Employees’ Organisations in the EAC.