ACUTE shortage of manpower, patient crowding and insufficient supply of medical reagents remain the main problems that haunt Zanzibar's Mnazi Mmoja Referral Hospital. The Hospital Executive Director, Dr Msafiri Marijani said here on Tuesday that the health facility and Zanzibar's health sector in general operate under daunting challenges, calling for all Islanders to cooperate in improving the situation. "The health sector still has many challenges; we have to join forces in addressing them instead of blaming medics and negatively portraying the health sector," charged Dr Marijani. He was speaking when Health, Social Welfare, Elders, Gender and Children Minister, Mr Nassor Ahmed Mazrui toured the hospital. The newly-appointed minister toured various departments, including operation theatres, wards, laboratories and a mini oxygen manufacturing plant. Mr Mazrui attributed congestion at Mnazi Mmoja hospital to underperformance of other health facilities in the country, leading to an influx of patients to the hospital. "We have a problem of other hospitals at the lower levels not working on a 24-hour basis," Minister Mazrui charged, promising to work hard to address the problems that Mnazi Mmoja and other hospitals face in the country. Director of Engineering Services Engineer Mathna Marine decried serious shortage of manpower in her department, which she described as central to the hospital's smooth operations. Engineer Marine further complained over lack of training for the few available experts to handle intricate machines at the hospital. "We appreciate the government for the huge investment in procurement of state-of-the art machines; unfortunately, we don't get relevant training on their handling and servicing," the engineering director charged, urging the government to invest on training if the procured machines have to last long. Voluntary Counseling and Testing/Care and Treatment Centre (VCT/CTC) Block In-charge Fatma Abdallah Ally said despite the shortage of test kits and limited space for patients, the department has no laboratory technician following the retirement of the one who had been serving the division. She asked the government to consider allocating the department a spacious office, possibly outside the city centre. "Stigma remains a serious problem and some of our clients find it difficult to attend their routine clinics here," she said. From Mnazi Mmoja, the minister toured Zanzibar Health Research Institute (ZAHRI) at Binguni area on the outskirt of the city. At the centre, he witnessed the stalled construction works on the 5.3bn/- building for biochemistry laboratory due to financial constraints. ZAHRI Director General Dr Mayassa Salum Ally said out of the over 5bn/- budget, only 500m/- has been released. "The contractor has stopped due to lack of funds," she said. The minister also visited the site for the envisaged referral hospital, which according to ZAHRI Director General Dr Mayassa Salum Ally, will upon completion offer the lasting solutions to all medical problems in Zanzibar. Meanwhile, Minister Mazrui met the World Health Organisation (WHO) Country Representative, Dr Girlmay Andy Michael here on Wednesday over talks on the best way to further cooperate in improving provision of health services to Zanzibaris.  Dr Michael reaffirmed the UN health body's commitment to work closely with the revolutionary government, especially on the execution of the 2018—2027 Zanzibar Comprehensive Cholera Elimination programme.  The minister also assured the WHO of generous support to enable it perform its duties in the islands smoothly. 