WINNING the season’s CAF Champions League (CAF CL) has been termed by Simba as the amicable way to pay tribute to the former president John Magufuli who passed away on Thursday in Dar es Salaam. Tanzania is still mourning the sudden death of Magufuli who among others, helped a lot to uplift standards of various sport disciplines in the country, the reason why the local sports fraternity will live to remember him. However, as the country mourns the departed visionary leader, a member of Simba Board of Directors Salim Abdallah ‘Try Again’ has declared that the only befitting way to pay tribute to the fallen hero is through winning the CAF CL. “On several occasions, he used to say that he wants a Tanzanian club to win the champions league. It is sad that he has gone without seeing his dream come true. Simba are currently taking part in the group stage of CAF Champions League, topping group A with ten points from four matches, keeping themselves close in on quarterfinals stage. “As Simba, we want to cherish his dream by making sure that we strive for the CAF Champions League title this season” he said. He added that Magufuli was an ardent sports fans, who, despite other national duties, spared his precious time attending football matches, including those involved Simba Sports Club. Furthermore, Abdallah narrated that they are looking forward to work abreast with the new president Samia Hassan Suluhu saying she is also a sports loving person who will always find time to see what is happening in this sector. Simba, who have had a stunning 100 percent performance in the competition’s group stages will probably continue to glitter. From four games played in their group A, Simba are the only side yet to concede any defeat as they have won three encounters and stamped a draw to harvest 10 points at the top of the table. Al Ahly of Egypt, who are CAF Champions League’s reigning champions, are second on the table with 7 points from the same number of played matches. On third slot are AS Vita who have pocked 4 points from four duels while Al-Merrikh are rooted at the base of the table with one point and in a nutshell, they seem to have been shown the door. As such, with two clashes remaining on the cards for each side, the table toppers, Simba have a glorious chance to sneak into the quarterfinals of the decorated football showpiece on the continent as they need just a point from their two remaining matches to nod in.