TOTAL Tanzania has partnered with Flaviana Matata Foundation to empower and support over 1,500 girl students by donating to them sanitary pads. This was said in Dar es Salaam on Monday by Total Tanzania’s Network Director Marieme Sow as Tanzania joins the rest of the world to commemorate the International Women’s Day. Sow said Total will support young girls in school who struggle to access sanitary towels to enable them to attend classes. She said Total will deduct a shilling from a litre of fuel bought by their customers on month of March and channel it to support Flaviana Matata Foundation, adding that many Tanzanians should be their clients to support the goal. “Here at Total we want to do our part during this month of celebrating women. For every litre of fuel sold at our stations we will deduct a shilling to purchase sanitary towels for students,” she said. Oh her part, Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Flaviana Matata Foundation,  Flaviana Matata elaborated that there are many girls  who miss to go to school during their menstrual period. Matata said apart from missing school they feel inferior and fail to mingle and associate with students or people in the society, hence, thanked Total Tanzania for joining with them. “I am so grateful for Total Tanzania choosing to partner with Falaviana Matata Foundation to inspire, empower and support young girls buy giving them sanitary towels which are essential for their health and education. “I am very touched with this partnership. I call upon all Tanzania to be part of this fight for girl students by fueling up at Total stations because each litre you buy you will contribute one shilling purchase sanitary towels for students,” said Matata. She said since July 2020 to date her organisation has reached about 1500 children and provides them with sanitary towels every month, adding: “Their happiness is to see these children attend classes every day and be free in the community and so they monitor them to see their academic goals being achieved.” She said she has high expectation with their cooperation that will be a great benefit to Tanzania children to be able to participate fully in classes and have the smile they were missing. Commenting on her part, Total Tanzania Director of Legal and Corporate Affair, Marsha Msuya said that over 1500 girl students miss five to seven days of school, because they fail to purchase the proper sanitary protection during their menstrual days, further translating the days to approximately 60-84 days not attending classes annually.