THE government has suspended new prices for internet bundles, few hours after telecommunication companies announced new rates. Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority official, Semu Mwakyanjala told the 'Daily News' yesterday that the government has suspended new rates pending further information. He said the government has heard the public concern and that the new rates for internet bundles have been suspended but SMS and call charges will remain as announced. Earlier in March this year, TCRA Director General, Eng James Malaba said the authority was working on the changes of rates for internet bundles after receiving 3,278 opinions from wananchi. Among the challenges identified by consumers include regular changes of rates for internet bundles. TCRA also directed service providers to seek regulator’s approval before introducing new bundle charges. The authority said with new regulations, customers will also be able to continue using their purchased airtime or unit packages extensively, not necessarily within the set expiry time. The user of the service will be notified once the package hits 75 and 100 percent for voice time, data and SMS packages. TCRA said other complaints based on high package costs, frequent changes in data packages, customers receiving promotional messages without their consent, and users losing bundles on expiration even if it (the bundle) had not been utilised. At least a total of 13 guidelines which compel service providers to abide by a certain set of operational requirements were issued. In line with the guidelines, service providers are no longer allowed to change packages until after 90 days. On Wednesday, some telecommunication firms informed their customers via SMS on the preparation for the new rates, which were later announced yesterday. Contrary to expectations, the telecommunication firms announced high rates for internet bundles, a situation that sparked panic and complaints in social media. In response to the situation, the government suspended the new rates as it works on the matter. Most of the service providers had more than doubled their charges on internet bundles. “The government has suspended the new rates until further notice, officials are working on the matter,” said Mr Mwakyanjala.