President Samia Hassan Suluhu has cancelled the Union Day celebration and instead directed the fund set aside for the purpose to be divided to fund development projects in Mainland Tanzania and the Isles. Vice-President, Dr Philip Mpango, issued the President's executive decision on Monday while opening the Union Forum held at Chimwaga hall in the capital, Dodoma. The forum was held in commemoration of the 57th anniversary of the union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar. Dr Mpango said; “we decided that instead of celebrating the union, we should use this forum to cement our union," he said. Adding, "the President (Samia Suluhu Hassan) has ordered the funds be distributed to both sides of the union." Equally, Dr Mpango said that the Republic and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar have managed to resolve 15 challenges out of 25 facing the Union; hence, efforts are being made to address the remaining gaps. He further said that the forum is held specifically to help the citizens understand the Union as majority of Tanzanians are born after its formation, and the forum will help them to understand the history and important events of our nation. “The Tanganyika and Zanzibar Union is a great asset and heritage to our nation and we must protect, nurture and continue to educate the public about its importance”, he said, noting: “This forum will be able to recognize and celebrate the achievements of the founders of our country." Dr Mpango said it is wise to honor the founders of our nation for their solid foundations they have built for us, which have continued to be a pillar for our strengthening unity, peace and stability but also in building the economy of our nation. He said that the 6th phase government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan and the eighth phase government under President Hussein Ali Mwinyi have given priority strengthening the union as one of their priorities. “All matters concerning the union are under my custody, pointing out that: “I will work with all the presidents from both sides as well as all the citizens of both parties to ensure that our union remains strong and the remaining challenges are addressed. “In my tenure as vice president I will not accept those who play with our great union and I will not be kind to them.”