THE oversubscription and yields rise looms for 25 years Treasury bond as the instrument goes under the hammer for the first time today. Some debt analysts predicted that the yields for the longest tenure bond in the land would rise by 0.5 percentage point to 16.00 per cent if auctioned at discount price. The government wants to raise 86bn/- at a fixed rate of 15.95 per cent. Vertex International Securities predicted on Monday that the 25 years bond would be oversubscribed with yields reaching 16.00 per cent. “We expect the 25–year bond to oversubscribe with yields reaching over 16.00 per cent,” Vertex said in its Weekly Market Review. Tanzania Securities said in its Weekly Market Wrap-Ups that the instrument carries attractive yield which was projected to entice the investor’s appetite at a fixed return of 15.95 per cent. “This is in line with the central government’s objective to enhance and promote financial market as well as fund government’s long-term projects,” Tanzania Securities noted. Analysts projection for oversubscription based on the previous bonds and bills performance. For instance, Zan Securities said in its Weekly Market Wrap-Ups, last week’s Treasury bill was oversubscribed by 123 percent according to the auction summary. “This shows that there is a strong demand for government securities and we expect this trend to continue for the upcoming 25-year Treasury bond auction today”, Zan Securities said. However, Tanzania Securities worried that the coming of the longer tenure bond may dilute the subscription rate of 20 years Treasury bond. “[This] has been sequentially happening due to high appetite by investors for the risk free but higher yield instruments,” the firm said. Nevertheless, the 25 years bond implied the longevity of government liability with aim to raise long term funds to help push to completion long term projects which at the end would have huge development impact. However, some of the economists said the timing was questionable from the perspective of the national credit system. They said the long tenure bond clearly indicates private sector crowding out from the credit growth. Thus, “putting out a Treasury- bond with even higher yield, regardless of the maturity, may be counter-productive to the efforts of lowering lending rates and growing credit to the private sector,” the economist (name withheld) said. The bond in the short term may squeeze out much needed liquidity in the economy bearing in mind slow business activities during the coronavirus pandemic and investors want to invest into risk-free instruments— such as government securities.