THE government has set aside 1.040bn/- for implementation of a project for connecting electricity in all remaining villages in the country. This was revealed by Deputy Minister for Energy, Steven Byabato before the National Assembly when responding to a question from Mwantumu Zodo (Special Seats-CCM). The lawmaker had explained that rural electrification had been pegged to be completed in 2021 - 2022. She, therefore, wanted to know the government’s strategy to ensure that rural electrification is completed as planned. In his response, the deputy minister told the House that the government through the Rural Energy Agency (REA) and the Tanzania Electricity Supply Corporation (TANESCO) continues to implement the third phase of the rural electrification project. He said that the implementation of the project started in March, 2021 and was expected to be completed by December, 2022. According to him, the project aims at connecting electricity power to 1,974 villages that have not been reached by such infrastructure. In addition, he said the project will also supply electricity to 1,474 localities. “When completed, the project will connect all 12,268 villages in mainland Tanzania with access to electricity infrastructure. The cost of the project is 1,040bn/-),” the deputy minister said. To ensure that the project is completed on time, Mr Byabato told the House that the government has put in place various strategies, including increasing management and reducing the scope of work for contractors to facilitate the management. He disclosed other strategies to include paying contractors on time and to ensure that all relevant equipment is available in the country. In a supplementary question, Husna Sekiboko wanted to know when the government would implement the promise of connecting power to the remaining villages in Tanga region, in particular within Lushoto where the situation is more worse. She also expressed the concerns on frequent power blackout in several villages in Handeni, Kilindi and Lushoto caused by the ongoing rains. The MP wanted to know when such problem would end by changing electricity infrastructures, in particular along Mombo-Lushoto transition line. The deputy minister explained that it was the government’s commitment to ensure all villages which have not been connected with electricity are availed with such power by December 2022. He pointed out that the REA third phase would ensure all the villages are connected with the power. “Let me assure the MP and all lawmakers that by December next year, all villages will be connected with electricity power,” he said. On power blackout issue, the deputy minister pointed out that the ministry through Tanesco was committed to ensure reliability of electricity power in Tanga region. He recalled that Tanga region consumes approximately 110 megawatts and receives electricity from two sources of Hale (4megawats) and New Pangani (68 megawats) and some electricity was drawn from Chalinze station. The deputy minister was, however, quick to point out that such transmission lines are too long and sometimes electricity got lost along the way and that the line from Chalinze to Tanga has no capacity of transmitting more electric power. “So we have decided to set a long-term strategy to build a 220 Kilowatts transmission line that will be able to carry large amounts of electricity to Tanga without interruption. At the moment our team from Tanesco is at the site repairing electrical infrastructure,” he said. According to him, they have received approximately 4.5bn/- for the rehabilitation of the electricity infrastructure in Tanga region, which includes the rehabilitation of poles for more than 200 kilometers and the ministry’s directive was that May this year such work would be completed.