YOUNG Africans’newly recruited tactician Nassredine Nabi today faces another test by facing hardfighting Tanzania Prisons in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC)in the round of 16. The Tunisian witnessed his new team suffering a 1-0 loss to Azam in his first assignment. It was unpleasant welcome for him. The Tunisian coach has joined Yanga from El Merrikh of Sudan, replacing the sacked Burundian coach Cedric Kaze. And this time he will be away at Nelson Mandela Stadium in Katavi to face Tanzania Prisons who seem to be a tough nut to crack whenever the team plays at home ground. The match might be another surprise package for Nabi. However, Yanga who are looking to regain their winning form after suffering a defeat to the Ice-Cream makers, will be targeting to win at any cost. Yanga are likely to hit the ground running to ensure they achieve one of their major targets this season as their main target to win the league diadem has become almost out of their reach. Yanga have shifted attention to FA Cup and today’s game against Prisons opens their mission to hunt for a place in one of the four tickets to play in the major continental tournaments next year. Yanga cruised into the round of 16 after they knocked out Ken Gold with a 1-0 win at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam and the winner was netted by Fiston Abdulrazack. During the League’s first round, two sides fought to a 1-1 at Nelson Mandela while the similar results were stamped in Dar es Salaam when the teams met during the league’second round. The victory is too urgent for Yanga as it will give them a relief after the latest upset as it will boost players and management’s morale. “We are eager to become the country envoy in the continental level tournaments, and this can be achieved by defeating Yanga and go up to the final and lift the cup,” said the team’s assistant coach, Shaaban Kazumba. “Our players are eager to be one of the country representative in the continental assignments and we have the history of doing that and we are looking forward to make our dream come true this time," he added. The winner of ASFC will grab a ticket to represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup. Namungo represented Tanzania as the runners up while the winners Simba opted to play in CAF Champions League. Namungo FC finalised their group stage campaign on Wednesday night in Cairo with another defeat to Pyramids of Egypt, a loss with made the Lindi-based team ending their group D campaign at the bottom without a point.