CLERICS have warned politicians and individuals of sowing seeds of ‘divisive politics’ as the country ushers in a new era under President Samia Suluhu Hassan. They sounded the warning here yesterday at a symposium to celebrate the life of the late Presi-pray for incumbent Head of State, Ms Samia. During their presentations at the well packed Chimwaga Hall in Dodoma, the clerics said that they have confidence in the experience and performance of President Samia and promised that they will pray and accord her full cooperation, so that the nation remains united. Chairman of the Council of the Pentecostal Churches of Tanzania, Peter Konki said it was weird that some Continued from Page 1 politicians were uttering bad words against the late President Magufuli, describing them as ill-advised and mischievous individuals, who are trying to impress President Samia in favour of appointment into the government posts. “It is very unfortunate that some individuals are praising President Samia while attacking the late President Magufuli, wickedly attempting to lobby for appointment to various posts,” he said. He spoke bitterly against divisive politics and hatred perpetuated by some politicians, saying it was not healthy for the country and advocated for peace and national unity. “Keep off divisive politics, hatred and avoid bad mouthing the late President John Magufuli. We remained united as a nation during the death of President Magufuli and successfully transition of power to President Samia, however, what I see in social media of recent is not pleasant at all, politicians should stop hypocrisy,” he said amid applause from the public He said the late President Magufuli did a great job for this country which should not be mocked in any way. “This country needs unity and few people should not try to destroy the prevailing peace by sowing seeds of hatred among the public…when peace and love prevails, the economy will flourish,” he argued. He also said that political leaders should stop rushing President Samia into reaching decisions that he said will appease them. Zanzibar Mufti Sheikh Saleh Kaabi, for his side, recalled that all believers should respect God and their leaders. “We have got leaders with good vision. Samia is attentive, she is advisable. We should stop fighting... I believe you will save this nation from problems...we hope that Dr Hussein Mwinyi will also maintain unity in the Isles,” he said. “It is our duty to respect our leaders, let us help each other, agree with each other and have tolerance over one another... ignore our ethnic and religious differences and help your neighbours,” he said. Mufti of Tanzania, Sheikh Aboubakaar Zuberi said the late President Magufuli’s legacy must be celebrated as he was a kind of leader, who served the country passionately and always stood for economic growth and well-being of its people. He said Magufuli’s life must be celebrated as he was a man of people from all walks of life and changed the lives of the majority poor. Mufti Zuberi said that President Samia will lead the nation to the right destination taking into account that she was sailing in the same boat with the late President Magufuli. Head of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) Presiding Bishop Dr Fredrick Shoo said they have confidence in President Samia’s performance and prayed for unity and peace. Chairman of the Khoja Shia Ithnasheri Alhaj Azim Dewji, meanwhile, reminded Tanzanians that they should not be quick to forget what the late President Magufuli did for the country. He advised President Samia to ignore disturbing noises, and instead remain firm and strong in leading the nation. Dr Alenikisa Cheyo from the Christian Council of Tanzania (CCT) insisted on the need for the public to pray for the country’s leaders. He wanted the leaders to be guided by Psalms 72 which partly reads “He will judge your people in righteousness, your afflicted ones with justice. The mountains will bring prosperity to the people, the hills the fruit of righteousness. He will defend the afflicted among the people and save the children of the needy; he will crush the oppressor.”