AS the ruling CCM extraordinary National Congress installs President Samia Suluhu Hassan as its national chairperson today, political analysts have underscored the importance for the Head of State to cover the duo responsibilities. President Samia’s endorsement to the helm of CCM comes following the death of party’s former leader, the late John Magufuli who was promoted to glory on March 17, this year. The name of President Samia was endorsed yesterday by the CCM National Executive Committee (NEC) that met after a meeting of the party’s Central Committee (CC) on Wednesday. This is a continuation of a series of smooth transitions of the party’s chairmanship that CCM transihas been observing over the past decades. Traditionally, CCM has been endorsing a sitting president to be the party’s national chairman. All former presidents had also served as chairmen. Speaking to the Daily News, analysts said it is very crucial for the President to also serve as the CCM national chairman for effective control of the government and the party. They said serving the two posts at once provides the Head of State with the confidence of being consistent on carrying out transformation. In a telephone interview, a University of Dar es Salaam lecturer, Dr Richard Mbunda, said the move to give the president with the duo responsibilities aims at enabling her to have full control of reforms she wants to bring. According to him, distinguishing between the presidency and party leadership may result in sabotage and delay in implementation of development projects. “This tradition within CCM was introduced for the President to have full confidence, control and influence on whatever has to be done,” he said. His views were concurred by University of Dodoma (Udom) lecturer Dr Paul Loisulie who noted that it is very difficult to distinguish the party chairmanship and the presidency. He explained that it was crucial for President Samia to be nominated the party chairperson for her to control discipline in the party and the government at large. “The President is the one who leads others to implement the party’s election manifesto, and she has her own style, so it is crucial for her to serve in both posts as it has been done in the past,” he explained. According to him, bringing national development needs discipline from the party and government, the effectiveness of this depends on the supervision of the top leader, who in this case should be the President and chairperson of the ruling party. Dr Joseph Matumaini, a lecturer at the St Augustine University of Tanzania (SAUT) insisted on adherence to the CCM’s constitution and tradition. “The constitution of CCM together with the party’s long time tradition requires that the President shall also become the chairperson; this has to be observed and respected,” he suggested. Speaking recently, former President Jakaya Kikwete said he was not expecting the party to distinguish the president from becoming the chairperson, saying the move wouldn’t be healthy for the party and the country at large. Mr Kikwete who was the CCM national chairman from 2006 to June 2016 was of the view that the two posts shouldn’t be distinguished as it has been of the greater interest of the party and the country. “The tradition should be maintained for the sake of protecting stability of the party especially when the chairperson differs with what the president is doing,” he said during an interview with one of the local daily newspapers. According to him, once these two people (president and the chairperson) have the opposing opinion then there will not be stability in the party. “I think this tradition should be maintained at the top leadership post as it was agreed. Separation of power should be executed at the lower level,” he explained. A list of CCM former chairpersons has the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, the late Benjamin Mkapa, Jakaya Kikwete and the late Dr John Magufuli.