MEMBERS of Parliament have advised the government to remain firm on flagship projects, especially the Julius Nyerere Hydro Power Project (JNHPP) under construction in Rufiji River. Unanimously, they suggested that there was a need to have big projects that should be implemented by the country to be completed on the scheduled time. Kawe Member of Parliament Josephat Gwajima said when contributing to the budget estimates for the Prime Minister’s Office for 2021/2022 that there was a need to implement all projects which were enshrined in the Chama Cha Mapinduzi Election Manifesto. On Thursday, Vwawa Lawmaker Josephat Hasunga went into the same foots, insisting that the JNHPP was supposed to bring revolution in the country as far power consumption is concerned. He underscored the need to have the ambitious and much- anticipated project, expedited on the given time limit. On Wednesday, Konde Member of Parliament Khatib Said Haji (ACT-Wazalendo) insisted on the need to ensure that the JNHPP nestled at the famous Nyerere National Park should be completed as it was highly insisted by the Head of State President Samia Suluhu Hassan in her recent speech. He said that, much as it can be, usual irregularities were imminent and that every Tanzanian was supposed to support the project. Mr Haji insisted on unity and solidarity in supporting all the ongoing projects in the country. Last Saturday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa assured Tanzanians that the government would continue to provide funds for the construction of the JNHPP, so that it could be completed on time. The premier said the government would equally do everything in its capacity to ensure the project was completed as scheduled and as per agreed international standards. He was speaking after a working tour at the site, where he inspected progress of the multi-billion shilling scheme. The project is scheduled to be completed on June 4, 2022. According to Mr Majaliwa, everything is set to ensure smooth continuous funding of the project. “I would like to ensure the public that the government is committed and focused to continue funding this strategic project, which is designed to bring both social and economic changes to all Tanzanians,” he said. The giant project is expected to generate 2,115MW and lower costs of electricity for consumers. Currently, Tanzania generates 1,500MW from other sources, with the additional 2115MW from JNHPP, the country will be able to export excess electricity to neighbouring countries, Mr Majaliwa expressed his satisfaction with the progress in the implementation of the project, saying taxpayers’ money is being used properly. “I am satisfied with the good job under Arab Contractors and Elsewedy Electric companies, all from Egypt. The good performance has so far been recorded under good supervision of Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) and the Ministry of Energy,” noted Mr Majaliwa.