THE Tanzania Non communicable Diseases Alliance (TANCDA) has commended President Samia Suluhu Hassan for including the fight of chronic diseases among the government priorities. It also hailed the President’s pledge to strengthen health insurance schemes to increase the number of Tanzanians with access to the services and address challenges facing NCD patients. Addressing the Parliament in Dodoma recently, President Samia said the government directs efforts in strengthening prevention and treatment services, especially on Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs) which have been killing many people, not only in Tanzania but globally. According to her, currently only 8.2 million Tanzanians, equivalent to 14 per cent, have access to insurance services. In addition to that, she also said that the government will continue strengthening the country’s healthcare system, including taking specialised services to regional referral hospitals. “TANCDA is pleased with the sixth phase government strategy to intensify the fight against NCDs which have been on the increase, affecting even young people including children “, said TANCDA Secretary, Prof Kaushik Ramaiya in a statement. According to scientific research, in 2016, 42 million people, equivalent to 71 percent of all deaths globally were due to NCDs, and 75 per cent of deaths of people aged between 30 and 70 were also caused by chronic illness. In Tanzania, the diseases account for 27 per cent of all deaths in the country. Studies conducted in 2012 indicate that in every 100 people aged 25 years and above, nine have diabetes, 26 blood pressure, 25 high level of cholesterol, and 34 had excessive weight. He said that there were various factors which contribute to the diseases, such as life styles which do not consider healthy eating habits, lack of exercise, excessive drinking and the use of tobacco. TANCDA focus more on raising public awareness about the NCDs because research had showed that if people are aware of the diseases, it will be easier for them to take preventive measures. “The Alliance also educate and encourage those who are already suffering from the diseases to observe the guidance being given by health experts in order to control the diseases so that they live longer,” Prof Ramaiya said. He said that they expect the government will direct more efforts in the fight against chronic diseases in order to realize the plan of having NCDs free society. He assured of TANCDA cooperation with the government in order to raise public awareness about NCDs