AFTER ending his goal scoring drought, Young Africans striker Ditram Nchimbi has expressed his happiness for finally breaking the jinx. Yanga dismantled Gwambina FC 3-1 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday night to reach 57 points and continue to float at the top of the 18-team table. The success was simply a warm welcome to the team’s newly signed Head Coach Mohamed Nasreddin Al-Nabi who watched the entire game from the VIP section of the 60,000 capacity venue. Up next, Yanga will face Azam at the same arena on Sunday in a stand up weekend fixture with the latter eyeing to revenge a disappointing 1-0 defeat they suffered in the first round battle of the season. “I am happy to have finally scored after a long time. Honestly, I was signed at Yanga as a striker responsible to score goals but sometimes, it happens that despite all efforts you make, you hardly score but this is now the beginning,” Nchimbi who lasted one year and some days without scoring in the unfolding league said. On his part, Yanga’s caretaker coach Juma Mwambusi showered praise on his players for the wonderful performance they show throughout the match. “When you see substitutes coming in and change the game, it is something to smile about. Each player worked hard to earn the victory and that is the most important thing to help the club move forward,” said him. His counterpart for Gwambina Mohamed Badru said errors made by his shot-stopper necessitated their opponents to emerge with the big victory. “In terms of playing, we were better than them only that errors from my goalkeeper cost us dearly at the end of the match. “After losing two games in a row, we need to make sure that we win our next game against Simba at home in order to climb up the ladders as the league marathon nears completion,” he said. Meanwhile, the management of Yanga has plans to investigate Saidi Ntibazonkiza’s incident occurred during his team’s Premier League match against Gwambina on Tuesday. Yanga’s plan to investigate their attacking midfielder Ntibazonkiza after he was seen doing unusual celebration when he scored his team’s third goal. Ntibazonkiza gave a sign that he wanted to be substituted. The act forced his team mate to intervene and calm him down. According to the club’s CEO Senzo Mazingiza, they intend to discuss the matter and find out reasons as to why he did so.