I SOMETIMES ask myself, do we, of course as Tanzanians, really know what it takes to win a soccer or any sports tournament for that matter? It’s a funny question eh, for one to raise? Now I sometimes ask myself the foregoing question because I have come to realise that as Tanzanians, more often than not, we really don’t know what it takes for a country or soccer club to win a soccer tournament, regionally or internationally. Why do I say that? It is very simple. How often have we come to discover that we failed in a given soccer tournament because we did not make the right preparation for it? A case in point is this wrangle which has been going on between Simba’s investor, Mo and the Fair Competition Committee (FCC) over the former’s long overdue investment in the club. Of course, it’s not a soccer tournament. But it very crucial because you cannot win any soccer tournament under the sun if you have not made the right kind of investment in your team. This issue between Mo and the government institution responsible for fair competition was supposed to be private. But all of a sudden it has become public after Mo appears to have been thoroughly frustrated over the legal modalities required to bring his investment in the club to fruitition. It suddenly became public. In fact, had it not been for Mo’s decision to complain, loudly, the tug of war, if you like, could have continued endlessly. Yet we can all recall, and not long ago, when her Excellency, the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Samia Suluhu Hassan revisited the issue of investment. She was very specific, when she was presiding over a swearing-in ceremony of permanent secretaries and their deputies at the State House in Dodoma. In a word, she was not very ‘happy’ with the way the institution responsible for facilitating investment in the country was going about its work. I was therefore not surprised when I came to learn of Mo’s loud complaint over the same! We want to win our respective sports tournaments. Yet we don’t prepare healthy ground for investment in such areas. Yes, we don’t have the right legal framework for facilitating such investments, we don’t prepare, scientifically, our respective teams for such sports tournaments, and as if that is not bad enough, we have allowed incompetent people to run our sports institutions. Yet when we fail to win, we are not only surprised that we have failed, but we come up with over a hundred excuses as to why we think we failed to win. What is very unfortunate is that this unfortunate trend of ours has been going on year in, year out since independence over sixty years ago. The monstrous tragedy that has afflicted us is such that we have even failed, miserably, to learn from our monumental mistakes we have been committing with repeated monotony. Mo’s problem, and by extension ours, is likely to be solved sooner than later simply because of what Simba are doing at the moment in the Champions League. But had it not been for Simba’s present brilliance in the continental level club soccer tournament, I don’t think we would have managed, as Tanzanians and soccer fans in particular, to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Unfortunately that is how we operate. That is our mental attitude. We are guided by kneejerk action. We don’t act until and unless we are told to by our superiors. What is more unfortunate is that sometimes it takes the President of Tanzania to make things move. Yet the people who do this kind of unpleasant things through inaction are people that had sworn in their respective religions that they would do this and that. For those who think I have probably been too hard on certain sports organisations and administrations, including the Tanzania Football Federation, let me ask my readers the following questions: How many times have they read in these columns my appeal both to the TFF and clubs to establish soccer academies in their respective stables? How many times have I criticised the TFF for their failure to prepare well one of our national soccer teams, Taifa Stars? How many times have I criticised the federation for wrong sacking of coaches they have themselves hired? Has the organisation learnt anything from their past mistakes? What about our soccer clubs? Did they learn anything from mistakes they had committed which ultimately cost them? On Mo’s current problem, was the TFF aware of the problem given the fact that soccer is its main docket? If it was aware, what did the organisation do to help in resolving the problem? Now if you review, critically, the foregoing questions you would come realize why I started this piece with the kind of questions I had raised in my first two paragraphs. I still stand with the questions I had raised at the start of this article.