President Samia Suluhu Hassan delivered a speech in Parliament last week, and people from different walks of life took it as the right vision of the country. Among issues she touched in her maiden speech in Parliament were about inclusive and sustainable growth where Tanzanians will contribute to and benefit from economic growth. The Women’s Network, Constitution, Leadership and Elections group say President Samia Suluhu Hassan has what it takes to propel Tanzania higher level of social and economic development. These women, who advocate for leadership promotion based on gender equality and justice, say they closely followed the president’s speech last Thursday, and concluded that it provided a clear vision for the nation. “This speech highlighted the priorities that have affected various areas of development in our country, including those that promote life, justice, and equality in the various Social,” the group said in a statement. They add that President Samia has clearly demonstrated the values of national leadership that include issues of justice, democracy, and equality. They say these important values if maintained, protected and defended, will shed much light to guide implementation of the priorities of the sixth-phase government, which include economic growth and poverty alleviation, combating corruption and embezzlement of public property. This will also facilitate tax-free payment, promote and increase productivity in the agricultural and livestock sector, promote employment and income by promoting and protecting the mining sector, tourism, industry and beyond, they say. “It will develop infrastructure, improve and revolutionize technology, ICT and telecommunications, increase investment in the energy sector, education, health, promoting and maintaining the foundations of democracy, peace and freedom, and also ensure the foundations of justice and rule of law are used to protect citizens.” In their analysis of President Samia’s speech, these professional women indicate that all areas have been given priority in his government they provide a great opportunity to promote development that benefits women, girls and other vulnerable groups in the country, as the implementation of these priorities will be built and implemented on the basis of justice and equality, including gender equality. Using few examples, these women group shows areas identified by the President as opportunities for development. The foundations and outcomes of such development shall lead to the growth of foundations including gender equality, they say. This clearly shows that President Samia has made a commitment to protect the foundations of democracy and the freedom of the people as well as politicians and the media. For example, in the implementation of this, she has shown great opportunity to build foundations and strategies that will not leave behind the participation and voices of women. “When the president meets with political parties we would like her to place emphasis on ensuring that the strategy for gender equality and democracy within their parties is implemented as their strategic agenda,” they say. Another priority is to improve the mining, tourism and other sectors, simply because these sectors have been prioritizing and benefiting men more than women in the long run. “It is our hope that the implementation of President Samia’s commitment will focus on ensuring that women benefit from the opportunities offered by these sectors.” They said they have also been touched by efforts to improve agriculture to integrate agricultural and industrial development with the aim of enabling agricultural products to be used as industrial raw materials. This, they say, will help farmers, including women in rural areas, to sell their produce in factories and buy products that have already been processed locally. What gives them hope is that the President has said she will give priority to investment, and land ownership will be a sensitive issue that requires great care. The President has done a good job of identifying this priority and promised that the participation of women in this matter is very important as land has become the main basis for women’s participation in development. President Samia’s leadership will support women who have been representing this nation for a long time and give them priority in opportunities derived from commercial agriculture unlike what they had been left behind for so long. Her leadership clearly shows that it will increase gender equality by adding more women to leadership positions based on appropriate criteria and qualifications. “These efforts will reduce the gap in gender equality in leadership positions and increase productivity in integrating gender issues into all development policies, budgets, plans and processes,” the Forum said in a statement. This will help in accelerating inclusive and sustainable development in the country and increase efforts in reducing maternal and child mortality. Also, strengthen health services by building infrastructure, adding staff, equipment, treatment and medicine reagents, as well as improving health insurance for the elderly and for all. These efforts will benefit women as they are the ones who bear the brunt of health issues in the family and society as a whole. This will also increase the accountability of executives in water projects, ensure access to water in dry areas through rainwater harvesting dams, and strengthen local and village water committees so that they can fulfill their responsibilities effectively. These efforts will reduce the burden on women to spend more time fetching water instead of spending that time on production activities. It is good to know that President Samia hopes to improve the education system in the country by reviewing the 2014 Education and Vocational Education Policy and education curriculum to be in line with the current context. These reviews should be integrated and give priority to girls and girls with disabilities so that they can benefit from their basic right to quality education. These women have promised to continue working with the sixth-phase government in various ways including providing co-operation to the President in monitoring and advising on the implementation of the priorities outlined in her speech.