THE Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) has promised to support the government’s efforts to revive hopes of improving better industrial business environments in the country. CTI Executive Director, Mr Leodegar Tenga, speaking on behalf of the Governing Council and members of the CTI, told a news conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday that they have been satisfied by the pace adopted by President Samia Suluhu Hassan in running government affairs. “We promise to support our president all the time and as you can see she has started really very well. Undoubtedly, she makes straightforward decisions and already such statements to ensure that the business and industrial environment is conducive have given us great relief,” he said. Mr Tenga added that for any businessperson owning an industrial unit who has heard of what President Samia has said, to be honest, he or she foresees great hope in the future. The CTI boss was speaking on the last day of mourning for former President John Magufuli, who died on March 17, 2021 and was laid to rest in Chato in Geita Region. “We as CIT members are joining Mama Samia in mourning the death of our former beloved President. We will remember him for so many issues and I can’t say them all,” he said. Tenga preferred to highlight few major areas, which ought to be remembered and according to him, the first issue related to the management of the ambition of making Tanzania an industrial economy. He pointed out that such an issue sparked a debate and placed the manufacturing sector as the backbone of the country’s economy. “For us this is a very important issue. That ambition, ideology and concept has made the industry a very important part of our country’s economy,” said Mr Tenga. The second issue, he said, related to improvement of all infrastructures, including construction of roads, improvements of marine services and ports. The CTI Executive Director was of the firm view that without good infrastructure it would be very difficult to produce and sell what is produced. Another factor is improvement of health services as Mr Tenga pointed out that for a country to grow, it needed healthier people. “So these efforts of building hospitals, dispensaries and improving the health of Tanzanians are efforts that we are very proud of,” he said. Regarding education efforts, Mr Tenga said that investing in industries needed educated and skilled labour “The decision to provide free education to youths is a very important decision for industrial development. Also the increase in loans given to students at the universities was very important,” he said. Another factor concerned how President Magufuli has been at the forefront of ensuring that government officials are accountable for their responsibilities. Mr Tenga said that the move was very important to attract investors because businesspersons like to invest where there are leaders who are responsible and who could provide the required necessities at the proper time needed. Another issue highlighted by the CTI Executive Director, which needed to be sustained is the fight against corruption. He pointed out that no one wants to invest in a corrupt environment. “The way to honor our beloved President is to ensure that we continue our efforts to build industries in the country. But in honor of him, we promise that we will work with President Samia, our new President to fulfill what is intended to be fulfilled,” he said. CTI are recognized as champions of the manufacturing industry, working tirelessly for nearly thirty years to strengthen Tanzania’s economy and create an effective legal, financial and economic business environment in which industry can thrive and contribute to Tanzania’s growth and prosperity. Being a Business Membership Organisation launched in July 199, the CTI represents over 400 members that span a range of sectors in the manufacturing and service industries. The organisation has been very active in advocating for a conducive business environment for its members so that they can become competitive.