THE Institute of Accountancy Arusha (IAA) has signed an agreement with the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) to provide international courses in accounting. IAA becomes the first higher learning institution in the country and third in East Africa to provide such globally accredit course, besides two being offered by Kenyan universities. Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Mr Hamad Yussuf Masauni, while launching the program in Dodoma hailed IAA management for the effort and to expand courses. He said the course will increase the number of finance and accounting experts who will contribute to the national development by offering their professional expertise with international accreditation. Mr Masauni said the move is timely, while also referring to President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s recent call to the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training to improve education systems to enable graduates become self-employed. However, he advised IAA to use the opportunities to train those in need from the neighboring countries. The Deputy Minister said they should look into opportunity to enable all accounting officers attend the course, citing the recently released report of the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) that portrayed serious challenges with accounting officers at district councils. Earlier IAA Rector, Prof Eliamini Sedoyeka noted that the training will produce experts that will meet the demand of the ministry and nation at large, expressing gratitude to ACCA for having trust in IAA and the Ministry of Finance and Planning. He said the international courses will increase enrolment of students at IAA that has increased, adding: “Starting ACCA courses will expand our enrolment and IAA is also committed to provide competence based training.” Prof Eliamini added that IAA has invested a lot in information and communication technology and now provides several courses online. ACCA representative in Tanzania, Genald Lazaro on his part, thanked IAA for the efforts to run such internationally accredited course here in Tanzania. He noted that Tanzania is a fast growing market for ACCA, stating that it has been working closely with the CAG office and that of the government chief accountant on matters of public accounts, saying: “ACCA is pleased to provide silver learning certificate to IAA, being the first of such institutions in Tanzania and third after some two in Kenya.” Asumpta Muna, ACCA Course Coordinator and Head, Department of Accounts and Finance at IAA said the new courses will be offered at Arusha, Dodoma and Dar es Salaam campuses. She said, the course will be offered during the evening and weekends to suit the demand of workers, who cannot attend full time training. “We also target customized training on the same to various institutions to avoid losing employers’ time” she said.