OVER 100 students of Jangwani girls’ secondary school in Dar es Salaam have received sanitary pads donated by Total Tanzania in partnership with the Flaviana Matata Foundation. The donation is part of Total Tanzania’s commitment during commemoration of International Women’s Month which takes place every 8th March. Speaking during the handing over, the Director of Legal and Corporate Affairs, Marsha Msuya, said Total was deeply touched when they had learnt that there were over 1,500 female students in the country who miss out on schools because of lack of sanitary towels. She said sanitary pad was one of the necessities for any girl or woman in the world so by providing girls with sanitary towels allows them to compete for education at the same pace as male students. Ms Msuya said providing female students with sanitary towels was one of the most active ways of empowering girls to acquire education and be filled with confidence even during their menstrual days. “Sanitary pads are one of the necessities for any girl or woman in the world and providing them with sanitary towels allows them to compete for education at the same race as male students. Total was deeply touched when we learnt that there are over 1,500 female students in the country who miss school because of lack of sanitary pads.” Stressed Ms Msuya. Oh her part, Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Flaviana Matata Foundation, Flaviana Matata thanked Total Tanzania Limited to be a part of the fight for girl students and partnering with her to help those children who are missing classes during their menstrual period. The Vice Headmistress of Jangwani Girls’ School, Ms Paulina Aweda thanked Total Tanzania and Flaviana Matata Foundation for their support, saying that the issue of menstruation for girls has been a problem. Early last month, during commemoration of the International Women’s Day, TOTAL Tanzania partnered with Flaviana Matata Foundation to empower and support female students by donating to them sanitary pads by each litre of fuel bought in March would contributed one shilling to purchase sanitary towels for students.