FINANCIAL discipline and proper business ideas have enabled beneficiaries of the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) to improve their lives by establishing various projects that enable them to earn income. Some of the beneficiaries told the ‘Daily News’ that their lives have changed after receiving financial support through TASAF programme. One of the beneficiaries in Mpwapwa District, a visual impaired Philemon Masumega who was enrolled through TASAF project in 2014 said his discipline in managing funds has helped him to improve his life by starting up some businesses. “When I was enrolled to TASAF, my life was quite different, I was a poor man who could not earn any amount of money,” he noted. Mr Masumega said he used the TASAF money to buy chicken, which he later sold at 10,000 each and later bought goats. “You need to observe financial discipline through savings and make sure there are strategies for growing your businesses,” he said. Mr Masumega who now own cows said he decided to buy cows after selling some of his goats. He said now his family drinks and sells milk. According to Mr Masumega, it has been difficult for some beneficiaries to move on because they lack financial discipline and proper plans. “Everyone needs to set up plans on the use of the money, there could be no success in business without proper plans and strategies,” he noted. Mr Masumega also sells charcoal, which has enabled his family to build a modern house. The sentiments were also shared by another beneficiary in Mpwawa District, Edda Mazengo, who said with her entrepreneurship skills, she used the grant to set up a horticulture business. She turned the grant to a capital to buy vegetables and other horticulture products that were on demand in her community and supply them. The profit from the business was enough for her to buy bricks, iron sheets and other building materials that enabled her to build a modern house. “The grant is small, but if well managed and utilised, one can bring changes in his/her life,” she said. On his part, TASAF Coordinator for Mpwapwa District, Bahati Mahumula said more than 7.3bn/- has been issued to more than 6220 households who cater across 57 villages in the district. He was impressed that majority of the beneficiaries are doing well and have attained the TASAF intended benchmarks for improved livelihoods of poor households.