A PREMIUM celebration of exemplary excellence in the wedding industry in Tanzania known as “Harusi Awards” is scheduled for Sunday May 16th at Dar es Salaam Serena hotel with key players in the various sectors of beauty fashion industry eligible for accolades. The awards to be given out from key players for their excellence include bridal hair and make- up artist of the year, Henna artiste of the year, Prewedding mentor of the year, wedding cake baker of the year, Men’s wear designer of the year, wedding gown designer and boutique of the year, wedding saloon and spa of the year and wedding photographer of the year. The Harusi celebrations have of recently been turning like another new sort-of fashion industry as new interventions of fashion industry are made with bride and groom entering the venues in dancing styles. Local make up legends and experienced photographers have been key players in most of the modern, low and key profiled wedding celebrations. The event is aiming at acknowledging the important role played by wedding vendors and service providers by awarding their exemplary excellence in their supply of products and services. Speaking to the press on behalf of the organisers 361 Degrees, Benedict Msofe said: “We are pleased to announce the maiden Wedding Awards in Tanzania to celebrate the exemplary excellence in our industry in Tanzania. “We have aver 65 Wedding vendors and service providers who will be taking part in this awards platform in a total of 20 categories,” “We have a concise knowledge and experience of the wedding industry in the country, and this was gained from the previous organised “Harusi Trade Fairs” for eight consecutive years,” he said. Msofe said that they are organising the “Harusi Awards” to spot out the best of the best and we believe by so doing, they will increase credibility to wedding vendors and service providers and also provide a helping hand to future brides and grooms by providing a list of verified wedding vendors and service suppliers to take care of their needs for their special days (weddings)”. “We had received nominations in various categories from the public at large. The stakeholders in the industry thence formally applied to participate in this sector through specific categories,” “A final list of nominees for each category will be disseminated later through our social media pages and voting will start immediately. Voting will be done online through our official website www. awards.co.tz, ” he added. A separate panel of jury will also review and judge the nominees. This entire process will be overseen by our assurance partner “Innovex Tanzania” which will be responsible with the auditing to ensure a free and fair awarding process,” Added Msofe. Speaking on the sponsorship, Upendo Futukubonye from INNOVEX Tanzania, said they are pleased to be part of this premium awards platform, and just to give assurance to all the participants in all the categories that they will be there to ensure this is a free and fair awards platform.” “Harusi Awards” is a platform which is aimed in propagating the business of wedding, increase the quality of services by the wedding ven