We all know that life has become tough, and this is not in mama Samia’s land only, but in most countries around the globe, especially with the emergence of Covid-19, but the things people do to make ends meet is pathetic. Nowadays the young men we call our sons lack ethics, and they no longer respect their elders, that is why they practically roam around as if they have no care in the world. Recently I had a very nasty experience with these young men calling themselves ‘Watoto wa mbwa’, two nasty incidents actually, although one of them involved my wife, mama Boyi. And I have a feeling that the first incident which involved my wife was coordinated by that thug who lives in my house and calling himself my son, the Domestic Thug, a. k. a Papa Dog Killa. That day the mother of my clan woke up very early in the morning because she wanted to go to Kariakoo Market to buy her supplies (she opened her own genge outside the house). She left the house in the wee hours of morning, and it was still dark outside, but the courage of that Nyakiusa woman always leaves me in disbelief. I turned in the bed ready for a second round of sleep and hugged the bed sheet closer, but my intentions of catching a few more winks of sleep were cut short a few minutes later by a blood curdling scream that filled the air in Manzese. My brain which was still soaking in some brown liquid told me that the voice outside resembled that of mama Boyi, because the war cries she usually makes before hitting me with the dreaded frying pan are forever engraved in my brain. I jumped out of bed and dashed outside, and the second scream told me that she was near the corner from our house. My spindly legs did their best in their poor excuse of running, and I found her in a close combat with a rough looking young man. It seems the young fellow was trying his luck to rob my wife of her handbag, and the first mistake this boy committed was that he did not know that mama Boyi is not like other women. I blamed the young thug because after he noticed that the effort of snatching the bag were futile, he should have run for his dear life, but his brain which I believe is a constant recipient of burned herbs convinced him that there were chances he might succeed. It was a short time before neighbours were on the spot, and the beating the young man received was enough to kill several dogs, and I had to intervene to save the young fool’s life because they wanted to roast him alive. “Baba Boyi, we respect you and mama here, but in this matter please leave it to us, because these young men, especially this one, have been a constant headache to this neighbourhood,” said a fellow who looked like a kibaka himself. I pleaded with them to spare his poor life, and by the time they dragged him to the nearby police post, he was not aware of his surroundings, because he was barely breathing. But two days ago I came across these miscreants again, and this time they were intending to rob all of us, and if that was not enough, they wanted to make us past tense. You see, that day I got a beer invitation from a friend of mine who lives in Kinyerezi, and because I never say no to the frothy liquid, I found my way there although I did not have a car (it completely refused to start that morning). By the time I was leaving Kinyerezi, it was at a very ungodly hour, and I was lucky to find a bus which was heading to Mwenge. I found a corner seat and told the young conductor to wake me up when we reached Mwenge, and I was starting to doze off when I heard a gruff voice commanding the driver to switch off the lights. I opened one eye to see the owner of the ugly voice, and I came face to face with an evil looking gun pointing at my bald head, which forced the second eye to fly open. The thugs were about four in the bus, and I realised that three of them were armed with guns, and the one who was unarmed was the one who was given the honour of collecting our wallets and phones. We were about 15 passengers in the bus, and we obediently handed the goods to the fellow, and without shame they accepted my old phone which is very cheap by just looking at it. One of the thugs ordered the driver to take a detour, and before long we found ourselves in a very secluded place, where they ordered the bus to stop and they commanded us to step out. You will not believe it, but they told all of us to strip, and when a defiant Haya fellow was given a massive slap, we obeyed as if our lives depended on it. Recently Jatello, my friend from the lake zone was in the US and he brought for me a designer boxer, which I was wearing that day, and when the fools saw it, one of them told me that he wanted it. “mzee hii bukta inaonekana ni ya mamtoni, vua fasta kabla sijakumaindi!” said the thug who looked as if he ate people like me for breakfast. I was thinking of the likely scenario where I appear at my door step with my shiny kitambi and vital organs exposed, and my mind refused to accept this likelihood, that is why it commanded me to make a run for it, because I knew if they did not kill me, then mama Boyi was surely going to do the job for them. It was a lucky day for us, because as they were arguing among themselves, a Defender full of Siro’s boys emerged from out of nowhere, and the first gunshot scattered the thugs in all corners. I was still shaking when I entered the house two hours later, holding my trouser in my left hand and my shirt slung on my shoulder, and came face to face with mother house