THOUGH it may sound a mere sinecure, the post of minister without portfolio plays a pivotal role to President Samia Suluhu Hassan in carrying out her duties, according to political experts. Some experts, including long-serving politician Stephen Wasira and academicians shared their views a day after the president appointed George Mkuchika to the position, when she announced a cabinet mini reshuffle on Wednesday in Dodoma. Mzee Wasira, who served in different government posts since the first phase government of Julius Nyerere, told the ‘Daily News’ that President Samia made the right decision to re-introduce the position. The minister without portfolio for the last time existed nine years ago, when President Jakaya Kikwete appointed Professor Mark Mwandosya as a minister without portfolio in 2012. In a telephone interview yesterday, Mzee Wasira told the ‘Daily News’ that the minister without portfolio was very important in assisting the president to undertake her daily responsibilities. “The president has a lot of activities to do and she may want to send someone else to do others on her behalf,” he said, reminding that in the past the late Rashid Kawawa had also served in the same position. In the cabinet meetings, the minister without portfolio participates and contributes his general views or in line with how the president wanted, he elaborated. University of Dodoma (UDOM) lecturer Dr Paul Loisulie argued that the minister without portfolio post is the president’s will to bring to State House a senior person who could advise her on various issues. “Usually, such people are government treasures and it cannot afford to put them aside, like Mzee Mkuchika, who has a lot of knowledge and experience in leadership,” Dr Loisulie stated. He further commended President Samia for re-introducing the post, which serves as appreciation to those who have served this nation for decades. Going by its definition, the minister without portfolio is either a government minister with no specific responsibilities or a minister who does not head a particular ministry. The sinecure is particularly common in countries ruled by coalition governments and a cabinet with decision-making authority, wherein a minister without portfolio, while they may not head any particular office or ministry, may still receive a ministerial salary and has the right to cast a vote in cabinet decisions. In Uganda since 2015, the cabinet list has included a minister without portfolio, namely Abraham Byandala (2015 -2016), Abdul Nadduli (2016 -2019) and Kirunda Kivejinja (2019-2021).