An Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar is one of the nine medals placed on the altar of St George's Chapel, displaying a selection of the medals and other decorations the Prince Philip received. Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh died on 9th April, 2021 at Windsor Castle, aged 99 and BBC reported he chose the medals himself as he planned his funeral in detail. He will be buried Saturday at Ground, Frogmore. “The regalia - including the Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar, the Brunei Esteemed Family Order, and the Singapore Order of Darjah Utama Temasekwere - are sewn onto the cushions using fish wire, rather than braid, which is more noticeable,” BBC reported in article titled Prince Philip: The State Bentley and five other features of the duke's funeral explained. It is thought the duke received awards and decorations from more than 50 countries but only a few have been selected because there was not enough space to display them all in the chapel. What is Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar? According to various source including Wikipedia, the Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar (Wisam al-Kawkab al-Durri al-Zanzibari) is a decoration awarded by the Sultan of Zanzibar for meritorious services and since The Order of Independence was created in 1963 it is reserved for the persons rendering extraordinary service to the Sultan, his heirs and successors and other members of the Royal family. The UK’s National Archives website describes it as the Official Gazette entry listing the appointments to the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar and the Sultan's Jubilee Medal. The Archives’ site has a list for unrestricted permission to wear decorations awarded as ·The Right Reverend Thomas Howard Birley; Bishop of Zanzibar. ·The Honorable Tayabali Hassali Alibhoy Karimjee; Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council, Zanzibar. ·Sidney Whitmore Dyer-Melville, Esq; Assistant Director of Electricity and Wireless, Zanzibar. ·Cecil Austin Bartlett, Esq; Secreatry Manager of the Clove Growers Association, Zanzibar. ·Robert Scott Taylor, Esq, MB; for valuable services to the Zanzibar Protectorate in his professional capacity. ·Eric Wilstshire, Esq; District Engineer, Zanzibar. ·Henry Langdon Renwick, Esq; Customs Officer, Zanzibar. ·David Willoughby Saunders-Jones, Esq; Adminsitrative Officer, Zanzibar. ·Shavakshaw Hormasji Talati, Office Superintendent in the Secretariat, Zanzibar. ·Shivji Kanji Nagar, Clerk in the Customs Department, Zanzibar. ·Shamboo Chiranju, Headman, Medical Department, Zanzibar. 