THE government is expected to spend 27.5bn/- for improvement of health services in the country, the Deputy Minister for Health Dr Festo Ndugange told the National Assembly. He explained that such amount to be used for completion of health facility buildings will be dished out before the end of June this year, with Meatu Constituency being among the beneficiaries, and would receive 150m/- for such purpose. The deputy minister was responding to a supplementary question from Leah Komanya (Meatu-CCM), who said that citizens in her constituency have been travelling long distances covering about 40km to access health services. She thus wanted to know when the government would provide funds to Meatu District Council to complete the construction of dispensary blocks constructed by wananchi on voluntary basis. The basic question was asked by Simon Lusengekile (Busega), who explained that citizens in Imalamate Ward with three villages within Busega District have constructed a dispensary and completed four blocks on the spirit of having one dispensary for each village. He wanted to know the government’s plan to assist such citizens for roofing such blocks to enable them get health services at the dispensary in question. The Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Hamad Chande pointed out that in February 2021, the government provided to Busega District Council 150m/-for the completion of Ng’wang’wenge, Sanga and Mkula dispensary blocks. Similarly, he said, in the financial year 2021/22, the government has allocated 150m/- for the completion of dispensary blocks at Imalamate, Ijutu and Busami in Busega District Council. “To improve health services in Busega District Council, in the financial year 2018/19, the government provided the Council with 1.8bn/- for the construction of the Council Hospital,” the deputy minister said. In addition, he said in February 2021, the government provided to Busega District Council a sum of 500m/- for the construction of three wards in the Council Hospital and has allocated another 500m/- in the budget for the financial year 2020/21 for the purchase of medical equipment for the hospital. Similarly, the deputy minister explained that in the financial year 2017/18, the government provided to Busega District Council a sum of 250m/- for the rehabilitation of Nasa Health Center and enabled the same to start providing emergency surgical services. He pointed out that the government will continue to build and repair infrastructure for provision of medical services in the country, including Busega District Council, depending on availability of funds.