SIMBA’S feat in the CAF Champions League has once again heightened the status of Tanzanian football and now the country will field four teams in two continental level tournaments. Simba enabled Tanzania to move up one position to settle at the 12th position. According to CAF associations ranked from 1st to 12th are eligible to enter two teams in each CAF tournament; CAF Champions League and Confederation Cup. In the 2018-19 Simba enabled Tanzania to field four teams. Simba were bundled out by UD Songo of Mozambique while Yanga were eliminated by Nkana of Zambia. Other envoys were KMC and Mtibwa Sugar who lost Kigali City and KCCA of Uganda respectively. Meanwhile, the country’s envoys in CAF Champions League Simba will know their quarterfinal opponents after a draw to be conducted in Cairo, Egypt today. Simba commanded their group with 13 points and sealed a place in the quarter finals despite being in a very tough and highly challenging group. Simba won four games, drew once and lost once. Simba expect their opponent to be any team from group B, C or D that finished second in a group stage. In which Simba SC can meet one of the three; CR Belouizdad (Algeria), Kaizer Chiefs (South Africa) or MC Alger (Algeria). Other quarterfinalists are Mamelodi Sundowns (South Africa), Waydad AC (Morocco), Esperance Sportive de Tunis (Tunisia) and Al Ahly SC (Egypt). The CAF Champions League quarter finals draw includes the four group winners together with their runner-ups. Each club in the quarterfinal holds a record in this competition; some of the clubs are stepping in the quarterfinal stage for the first time, while others hold a magnificent record in the history of these competitions. Some of the clubs have been champions that include; Mamelodi Sundowns in 2016 and MC Alger in 1976 where both won once. Waydad AC lifted the title twice including in 2017, Esperance Sportive de Tunis have won this title four-times, and the latest was in 2018-19. Al Ahly SC who are the defending champions, are considered as the most successful team in these competitions recording nine-time champions. Meanwhile, the CAF Confederation Cup quarter finalists draw will also be conducted today. The Tanzanian representatives Namungo FC were knocked out in the group stage after a poor performance. Namungo failed to qualify in those competitions after losing all group D games and thus picked a bottom position.