MINERALS have been mined from the earth since prehistoric times and the history of development and industrial advancement has been linked with man’s ability not only to harness but use the materials available as raw materials to other manufacturing. Through knowledge and technological innovation there has been a continuing evolution and expansion in the minerals we consume and the range of uses to which they are put. Industrial or non-metallic minerals are essential to economic development. As Tanzania targets the sector contribution to 10 per cent come 2025, the value of industrial mineral production in the country if all taken in their total value could have more than 10 per cent contribution to GDP. In Tanzania, to the best of my knowledge and based on research the value of industrial mineral is massive, particularly during emerging modern industrialized society that requires quality and reasonably priced industrial minerals in such industries as smelting of copper and iron, manufacturing cement, drilling oil wells, manufacturing ceramic materials and so forth. The complex geological history of Tanzania is dominated by the ‘wananchi’ shield bounded by mobile belts in the west and east and cut the great east Africa rift valleys. Both Usagaran and Ubendian, other consisting of wellknown schist or greenstone belts which are the host rocks of most of minerals has contributed much to our national wealth. Tanzania has a wide range of industrial minerals such as construction minerals, especially aggregates, and industrial minerals, such as salt, potash, limestone, gypsum, coal, silver, phosphates, tin, meerschaum, iron, base metal for instance Cu, Ni, Zn, Pb and kaolin. These minerals if mined professionally at affordable costs in my view will be of continuing economic importance to Tanzania. These minerals are, therefore, valuable national assets, because unlike human resources, capital, knowledge and manufacturing facilities etc. this resource is non-transferable and can only be worked where they occur. In the context of discussion in this subject, my definition for economic minerals are rocks, minerals or fluids, that are valued for their physical and/ or chemical properties and can be marketed for productive use. As government-led by President her Excellence Samia Suluhu Hassan desires to increase mining sector support to the GDP to hit 10 per cent towards 2025, it is worthy to take mindful of the fact that supplies of industrial minerals will remain to be critical for manufacturing sector, construction sector, energy requirements and agriculture sector and thus for the sustainable development of a Tanzania modern economy. Whilst it is always argued and onetime debated at different setting, including in the legislative body, especially during budget sessions, economic minerals found in Tanzania and their use aren’t well known to many including their full potential. For example, energy minerals found in Tanzania comprise of coal, oil, gas and uranium, metals minerals include iron, steel, aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, nickel, gold, silver and niobium. Likewise, non-metallic minerals divided into construction minerals for instance sand and gravel, crushed roc aggregates, cement materials, brick clay, gypsum (CaSO4.2H2O), slate and building stones; and industrial materials i.e. salt (NaCl), potash (KCl), kaolin, industrial carbonates (CaCO3) to mention a few all are in Tanzania with economic value resource. I am of the opinion that lack of what these minerals are used for could led to undervaluation when determining the manner in which an investor can be enticed to invest especially from our people. Unless proven wrong, I am of the opinion sending negotiators to seal deals without right knowhow could lead to poor deal close especially for economic minerals that in practice should benefit more Tanzanians. Understanding of economic market value status in my view is critical as we engage in swotting mining laws and regulations aimed at attracting stern investors into economic minerals. There is a need to view energy minerals in relation to electricity generation, transportation, processes fuels, organic chemicals and plastic. Likewise viewing metal minerals in relation to manufacturing, construction, steel making, engineering, electrical and electronic, jewellery and monetary. While for construction minerals with respect to cements, tiles, pipes, plaster and plasterboard, and industrial minerals with respect to chemicals, ceramics, refractories, fertilisers, foundry casting, metallurgy, fillers/pigments, iron and steel, fuel gas, desulphurisation, water treatment and oil-well drilling. The significance of the extractive industries, to the national economy is measured by their input to Gross Value Added (GVA). This in my view is a strategic indicator of economic performance and denotes to an increase in ability to produce goods and services. Adding value to minerals mined from the ground is an important objective, the greater the added value the greater the benefits that accrue to both the investor and the nation. Make the most of the benefits from working mineral resources is an objective of sustainable development. It is, however, important to note the importance of minerals to the Tanzania economy is not attributable exclusively to the value of production and the numbers of people who are directly or indirectly employed in their mining. In my view, needs to be taken of their significance as essential inputs to a wide range of downstream industries, comprising power generation, construction and manufacturing in relation to: the importance of these downstream industries to the Tanzania economy; the status of these minerals to the competitiveness of these industries; and above all, the number of jobs that might be generated if there production of these minerals is done resourcefully. For its small size Tanzania is somewhat well gifted with economic mineral resources and their extraction and use or through exporting them other industrialised nations could have an important role in the development of the Tanzania economy over many years. Extraction of industrial and technological minerals if supported with right financing from development banks with tin, copper, nickel, iron, graphite kaolin and niobium being important areas could help contribution of this sector to GDP to exceed 10 per cent target for 2025. Policy architects and those bestowed with powers to oversee how the sector could benefit Tanzania need to realize that the role the sector make to the national economy can be seen in two parameters. One, there is the primary contribution that the sector make in terms of added value and employment; and, two there is the secondary support that these industries make to the competitiveness of the downstream industries they support. It is my trust, with right investment incentives and right financing structure, the economic importance of minerals sector could help to boost economic growth in Tanzania. It isn’t a secret; Tanzania has substantial mineral deposit, both for forex generation and for domestic consumption that could help to lower import wedge bill. I hope with review in the mining law call as echoed by her excellence President Samia Suluhu Hassan, when sworn in new cabinet ministers after minor cabinet reshuffle, private and foreign investment will begin to flow back into the Tanzanian mining sector.