PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports to come up with a strategies to uplift the sector; putting emphasis on developing sports coaches, tutors and personnel in the country that they strengthen the technical area. The Premier issued the directive after noting that the sector has been relying on coaches and sports specialists from abroad, where he noted neighbouring countries being among them. Among the coaches that have been tutoring Tanzanian clubs have come from Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, Uganda and Rwanda. He described that act as not good for the growth of the sports industry, if the nation largely relies on foreign experts. The Prime Minister said this Tuesday in the parliamentary session in Dodoma before he issued his closing remarks of the question and answer session. “Speaker, among the challenges facing the sports, arts and entertainment sector is the technical and practical area. This can be reflected with the presence of many foreign tutors, where most come from our neighbouring countries, “explained Majaliwa. This proof is reflected on the big clubs in the country like Simba, Young Africans and Azam, the teams that have been largely relying on the foreign coaches despite the fact their assistant coaches are mostly Tanzanians. Apart from clubs, the national team, as well has long been coached by foreign tutors. The Premier therefore instructed the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports to work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation to ensure sports specialists are well trained to bring best results. Thus, if the two ministries work together it will open doors for Tanzania and partner countries in the area of culture, sports and the arts to bring best results. "In that sense, I take this opportunity to instruct the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports to work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation and its directorates within the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports to come up with a strategy to develop our local sports experts; our local artists and entertainment sector to ensure creativity. The Prime Minister also informed the parliament that the sector has been growing but its contribution to the economy is still small. Citing an example he said from 2013 to 2019, arts and entertainment sector contributed 0.3 per cent of GDP. The Prime Minister further noted that even though the sector has been contributing low income but it has still shown growth by hiring more young people. The Premier added that sports have now become one of the sectors that promote the nation identity abroad including tourism. Recognising the contribution of sports sector, he told the parliament that the government would will continue supporting and ensure sports in the country grow as the benefits of sports are many; they include youth employment, tax revenue and treatment against non-communicable diseases. Meanwhile, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Innocent Bashungwa has lauded Bunge FC for picking new management team. Speaking in Dodoma during the Bunge session, the Minister said the government is committed to support the team to ensure it delivers. During the election, Abbas Tarimba was elected the Chairman of the Bunge FC team and will be assisted by Esther Matiku as the Vice Chairman. The election also picked Seif Gulamali to serve as the team’s manager. Bunge FC team also elected five legislatives to serve as the team’s members of the executive committee. The members are Ridhiwan Kikwete, Anna Lupembe, Rose Tweve, Aishi Hilal and Stanslaus Mabula.