THE High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division has acquitted a suspected poacher, Mussa Selemani, of two charges of unlawful possession and dealing in four whole and four pieces of elephant tusks equivalent to three killed elephants, valued at 102m/-. Judge Imakulata Banzi ruled that the prosecution side failed to prove the case against the accused person beyond reasonable doubt, at a required standard in criminal cases. “Since the prosecution has failed to prove the case on the required standard, the accused person is hereby acquitted on both counts of unlawful possession of government trophy and unlawful dealing in government trophy and is accordingly set free,” the judge declared. Judge Banzi found two key prosecution witnesses, who are officers from the Anti-Poaching Unit incredible and unreliable. She ruled that it could not be concluded with certainty that the accused person was actually found in possession and selling of the elephant tusks in question. According to her, the certificate of seizure was signed contrary to the law and settled principle laid down in the case of David Athanas, alias Makasi, in which it was decided that such crucial document must be signed at the place where the search was conducted in presence of an independent witness. “Although the certificate of seizure shows it was filled and signed at the crime scene, Nebelekunya area, but both (officers from the Anti- Poaching Unit) in their oral testimony insisted that, it was filled and signed at Kibaya (area at) Kiteto,” she said. She pointed out that although section 106 (1) of Wildlife Conservation Act does not compel the necessity of a free witness in any search conducted in places other than in a dwelling house, the same section does not permit certificate of seizure to be executed and signed in another place other than the crime scene. Judge Banzi further recalled that the accused person raised a defence of alibi claiming that on the date of incident, he was not at the crime scene. She noted that the accused person had claimed that he was in Dar es Salaam. “Although the defence of the accused persons may not be plausible, it is a settled principle that the accused is not required to prove his alibi to be true. He only needed to raise the slightest doubt on the prosecution case that he was not at the scene of crime,” the judge said. It is alleged in the first count that on May 23, 2018 at Nabelekunya area in Kiteto District in Manyara Region, the accused person was found in possession of government trophies, which are four whole and four pieces of elephant tusks equivalent to three killed elephants each valued at 15,000 US dollars. On the same date and place, the accused person was found selling the government trophies, all valued at 45,000 US dollars, equivalent to 102,458,700/-, the property of the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, without a trophy dealer’s license. Facts show that on May 22, 2018, one witness with his colleagues were instructed by the head of zone, Anti-poaching Unit to go to Nabelekunya area in Kiteto District following a tip from an informant about persons who were involving themselves in dealing in elephant tusks. Upon such instruction, such officers left Arusha for Kiteto. According to the witness, throughout the journey, he was communicating with the informant. Upon arrival, they met with the informant and the latter called those vendors in order to know how and where the intended business will be conducted. The informant told them that he had agreed with vendors to conduct the business at 6:00 pm to 7:00 pm at Nabelekunya. Thereafter, the witness assigned the Unit’s officers to pose as purchaser, while other three remained as guards and another pretended as a porter and weighing person. In the course of assigning duties, the informant was communicating with vendors who told him that one amongst them will receive the purchasers on the way to the crime scene. Thereafter, the witness, his colleagues and the informant began their journey to the crime scene headed by the accused person with his motorcycle whom they met on the way. On arrival, they found three persons and the one who was leading them joined the three and became four.