FINANCE Attaché at the High Commission of Tanzania in Maputo, Mozambique, Joyce Moshi, has approached the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to enter into plea bargaining agreement to resolve 300m/- economic trial she is facing. This was learnt at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam when the trial came for mentioning. State Attorney Silvia Mitanto told Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi that the negotiations leading to the negotiations were still in progress. The accused persons asked the magistrate to set a nearest date so that she could know the progresses that have been made. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the trial to April 19, 2021. In the case, Moshi faces nine counts, including money laundering and obtaining money by false pretences. Other charges are forgery, uttering false documents and stealing by person in public service. The prosecution alleges that the accused committed the offences between October 25, 2016 and April 12, 2017 at the High Commission of United Republic of Tanzania offices and Bank Millenium BIM-Julius Nyerere Branch Maputo in the city of Maputo. It is alleged that within the same period at the High Commission of United Republic of Tanzania offices within the city in Mozambique, with intent to defraud, she forged three letters dated October 25, 2016, February 10, 2017 and April 12, 2017. According to the prosecution, the accused purported to show that the High Commission of United Republic of Tanzania in Mozambique had directed Bank Millenium BIM, Maputo to transfer 10,000 US dollars, 100,000 US dollars and 40,000 US dollars, respectively, from a certain account to that of Joyce. The prosecution told the court that within the same period at the Bank Millenium BIM-Julius Nyerere Branch Maputo in the city of Maputo, knowingly and fraudulently, the accused uttered the letters with similar purposes of transferring the said sum, totaling 150,000 US dollars. It is alleged further that on diverse dates between October 25, 2016 and April 12, 2017 at the High Commission offices and the Bank, being a person employed in the Public Service, Joyce fraudulently stole the said money, the property of the United Republic of Tanzania. Within the same period and places, with intent to defraud, the High Commission’s senior official obtained from her employer 150,000 US dollars by falsely pretending to have been instructed to withdraw the amount from a certain account to her account, while she believed it was false. The court head further that between October 25, 2016 and April 12, 2017 at the High Commission offices and the Bank in Maputo City, the accused committed an offence of money laundering by acquiring the money, while knowing that the sum was proceeds of a predicate offence of forgery.