THE government has started implementing decisions of the High Court and the Court of Appeal by initiating amendments of the Law of Marriage Act to set suitable ages for boys and girls to get married. Such good news was revealed before the National Assembly here on Wednesday by the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, when winding up debate for his ministry’s budget estimates for 2021/2022 financial year. He explained that immediately after the decision in the appeal by Attorney General against Rebeka Gyumi, Appeal No. 204 of 2019, the ministry initiated amendments of the Law of Marriage Act and Probate and Administration of Estates Act to determine the age of marriage for a woman and a man. Finally, the minister said, in February 2021, the government presented a bill before the National Assembly for the amendments of the Act. In addition, the ministry submitted a proposal to identify administrators of estates on assets once one of the partners in the marriage died, “Since the amendment of the Act involves the society as a whole, the government was advised to engage the public and get opinions on the proposed amendments to the law. On March 17, 2021, the ministry resumed meetings with religious leaders and later other groups to receive opinions,” he said. In addition, according to the minister, the ministry has developed a work plan to reach out all groups in the community to get opinions that would enable the enactment of a law that has been approved by all. So far, he said the ministry has been able to gather opinions from Arusha, Mwanza and Dar es Salaam regions from traditional and religious leaders. “When the ministry completes the exercise of collecting and receiving opinions, it will submit the proposals for amendment of the laws to suit the developmental situation we have without affecting our traditions, customs, cultures and religions,” said Prof. Kabudi. The minister was responding to concerns by Salome Makamba (Special Seat-Chadema) over delay by the government to amend the law in question following decision of the courts. Responding, Prof Kabudi said that according to information provided in the past about the Law of Marriage Act, it was good to keep in mind that such law should not be judged by one Article. The saying that once one fish is rotten, then all are rotten is wrong in the Law of Marriage Act. “I repeat what I have already said; the Law Marriage Act of 1971 is the revolutionary law of marriage on the African continent. It is the most progressive law of marriage in Africa. Therefore, we should not judge it by just one Article,” he said. Prof Kabudi pointed out that as regard to such Article; it was his opinion at the time the same case could have been referred to the appellate court not through Article 13 of the Constitution on discrimination, but through Article on the right to life. “But by applying the discriminatory provision we fall into the trap of forgetting that in the reality for Tanzania, we must have positive discrimination for the benefit of women. That is what is called affirmative action. Affirmative action is also discriminatory, but it is positive,” the minister said. He cautioned that by continuing to apply the opportunity of discrimination through such, the Article there could be violation of the fundamental principle that has enabled Tanzanian women to experience positive discrimination for them to grow, to be sworn in parliament and to be in various positions. “The argument here is, if it was a question of health, then it is the right to life. But it is true that if the matter threatened life, I would have filed a case under the right to life and not the right against discrimination,” said the minister. However, the opposition lawmaker appeared to have not been satisfied with explanations given by the minister and threatened to withdraw a shilling if more detailed sufficient clarification would not be given on the matter. Deputy Speaker Tulia Ackson had to intervened and clarified that it was true that the bill in question was presented before the House and that the procedure adopted by the ministry to seek opinions of the community was correct. “Don’t worry about me. I am one of those people who believe that even 18 years is not enough for a girl to get married,” the deputy speaker said. She added that an 18-year-old was incapable, although many think that by attaining such age the girl could be capable to get married. On October 23, 2019, the Court of Appeal confirmed the High Court’s decision, nullifying some provisions under the Law of Marriage Act, allowing a girl under the age of 18 years to get married. Effects of the landmark judgment delivered by Justices Augustine Mwarija, Winfrida Korosso and Mary Lavira sets the official marriage age for both men and women at 18 years only and not otherwise. The justices ruled in favour of Rebeca Gyumi, who is the director and founder of the Msichana Initiative, the respondent, after dismissing the appeal lodged by the Attorney General (AG), the appellant, in attempt to fault the High Court judgment. “We find and hold that the entire appeal has no merit. The appellant was supposed to abide by the order of the High Court to cause amendment of the LMA as directed. Having so stated, we dismiss the appeal in its entirety with no order as to costs,” they declared. In the judgment dated July 8, 2016, a High Court panel comprising former Principal Judge Shaban Lila, Sekiet Kihiyo and Ama Munisi nullified sections 13 and 17 of the Tanzania Law of Marriage Act, which allow girls to marry at age 15 with parental permission and at age 14 with the permission of a court. They ruled that the provisions were unconstitutional and, therefore, gave the Attorney General one year from the date of the decision within which to make arrangements for amendments of the law to put the age of 18 years as minimum for one to contract marriage.