TODAY’S article covers a variety of different topics on matters which have recently dominated the social media, but which, in my humble opinion, deserve greater attention in the form of further elaboration, or clarification. They are presented in the paragraphs which follow here below. (i) The unpalatable personal attacks inside Parliament (Mnyukano wa Wabunge). In the course of the recent debate on the annual budget on the Prime Minister’s estimates for the financial year (FY) 2021; there occurred one unusual episode, in the form of an unpalatable personal attack made by certain MPS against their colleague. It should be noted that the annual ‘debate on the government budget’ is, in fact, a constitutional function of Parliament, which is so provided for in article 63 (3) (b) of the Constitution of the United Republic. And it is basically for this reason, that Parliament’s own ‘rules of debate’ in the House have, by convention, introduced a convenient relaxation in the application of its rules of debate, by exempting this debate from the strict rule which requires members participating in the House debates, to be strictly relevant to the subject under discussion; by giving the participating MPs in the ‘debate on the budget, the freedom to literally ‘roam’ over the entire vast plains of government activities; which means that the MPs can express their opinions on literally anything that is within the purview of the government’s responsibilities, without running the risk of being ruled ‘out of order’ by the Speaker; simply because in such debates, everything that relates to any government activity, is treated as being ‘in order’. Hence, in the recent debate on the Prime Minister’s Office estimates for the FY 2021, the former Minister for Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, presumably took advantage of this relaxation of the ‘rules of debate’, to raise unfair criticism against the government’s investment in the Julius Nyerere Hydroelectric Power project (JNHPP); claiming that “it will take too many years to financially benefit the country”, and suggesting that “the government should instead have invested in natural gas for power generation”. This criticism led to certain unpalatable reactions in the form of personal attacks being directed to him from certain other MPs; which the Kiswahili language newspaper MWANANCHI figuratively described in its front page headline as “Mnyukano wa Wabunge”. Indeed, in any other debate, Professor Muhongo’s reference to that project at that stage, would have been ruled “out of order”, simply for being “irrelevant to the subject under discussion”, since the construction of government projects is not under the Prime Minister’s portfolio. But, because of the conventional relaxation of the relevant rule during the ‘debates on the budget’, such irrelevancies were tolerated. However, what appears to have irritated some of the other MPs, is the fact that Professor Muhongo’s statement was, in fact, a thinly veiled attack on the late President Magufuli’s decision to implement that mega project. And this, is precisely, what created a ‘storm’ of protest from some other MPs, significantly, from the firebrand politicians like the Mvumi constituency MP Livingsote Lusinde; and Geita Rural MP Joseph Kasheku (Msukuma) who, when they were given the opportunity to make their contributions to this debate, they literally ‘pounced’ on Professor Muhongo personally. Joseph Msukuma said: “The government should reduce its trust in some Professors like Muhongo, because they have shown great weaknesses in their judgments”; while Livingstone Lusinde said: “my formal education ended at the primary level (STD V!!); but my wisdom of judgment is superior to that of Professor Muhongo”. Several other MPs also expressed their opinions on the matter, with some of them even attempting to distance President Samia from her predecessor! However, even outside Parliament, Professor Muhongo’s criticism of that project seems to have irritated many other people. For, very soon after that episode, and even before the Prime Minister had delivered his scheduled reply when winding up that debate; measures were already taken to counterblast Professor Muhongo’s assertions. For example, a stream of Government leaders separately went to visit the JNHPP construction site, ostensibly in order to inspect the project’s implementation progress; but in reality, to make statements defending the viability of this flagship mega project, which is the brainchild of Tanzania’s founder President, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. Such visitors included the Board Chairman of TANAPA, whose comments focused on the huge tourism benefits that will accrue from that project after its completion, presumably in order to demonstrate that Professor Muhongo’s criticism was totally misconceived. In other words, Professor Muhongo had committed the offence of wicked “trespass” on the sacrosanct legacy of the late President Magufuli. (II) Chadema’s determination to boycott the upcoming byeelections. At a recent press conference convened by CHADEMA’s national Chairman Freeman Mbowe, the said Chairman reiterated his party’s determination to boycott the upcoming parliamentary by-elections in Buhigwe and Muhambwe constituencies; because of that party’s lack of confidence in the National Electoral Commission (NEC). This, of course, is not the first time for Opposition parties to boycott elections in our united jurisdiction; for such boycotts have previously been executed in some of the Union elections on the Mainland; as well as in some of the Zanzibar elections; turning a blind eye to the dangers of such boycotts not only to democracy; but also to the harmful effects inflicted on the boycotting parties themselves. plus other debilitating consequences arising there from, and associated therewith. The ‘self-injury’ effects. A “self-inflicted injury”, may be described as ‘any type of injury which is deliberately inflicted by a person upon himself’. The parties that decide to boycott elections are usually themselves the losers, in two particular respects. One is that their members and followers benefit absolutely nothing therefrom. Instead, they are reduced to being mere ‘onlookers’ of the political process, since they are forcibly excluded from participation therein; especially those who would have been their representatives in the Union Parliament, and in the Zanzibar House of Representatives, who are unfairly denied the opportunity of being such representatives. But in addition, the boycotting parties themselves also do suffer from similar ‘selfinflicted injuries’. For example, when CUF boycotted the 2005 Zanzibar elections, the party also Plus, which was even more serious, their boycott actually frustrated the formation of a Government of National Unity (GNU) in Zanzibar; which was a major blow to the sterling success which had been achieved, in removing the historic political divisions, plus the associated feelings of bitterness and enmity, among the ordinary people of Zanzibar. This completes my presentation regarding the recent episodes that needed some clarification. I will now move on to another issue, which I believe, also needs some elaboration and clarification; particularly for those observers who might be somehow perplexed proceedings of the election of President Samia Suluhu Hassan to the Chairmanship of the ruling party CCM. The process of election of the CCM national Chairman. It is also important for our readers to take cognizance of another CCM rule provides for, and actually entrenches, the convention and practice of all the CCM Presidents holding what is known as “kofia mbili”, namely, those of the country’s Presidency, and the Chairmanship of the ruling party CCM. The said rule provides that the person who is elected President, shall also become the CM national Chairman. Therefore, all that is left to be done is just for the party to activate the election process, in accordance with the party’s election rules. This rule has been applied to all past CCM Presidents, starting with Tanzania’s founder President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. Hence in pursuance of that rule, the business of electing President Samia Suluhu Hassan as Chairman of the ruling party was transacted on 30th April, 2021; when the CCM national CCM Congress convened in Dodoma for that purpose. What may be perplexing to some observers and would need some clarification, especially for those who were witnessing this process for the first time, is why is it so totally different from all other election processes, which normally allow the aspirants to conducting public campaigns, in order to ask for, and mobilise support, for their candidacy? This question is answered in the paragraphs which follow below. According to rule no. 1 of the CCM election rules, (Kanuni za Uchaguzi wa CCM); no election contest is held in respect of CCM’s three top positions of National Chairman, and the two Vice Chairmen. Instead, the Party’s Central Committee is empowered to nominate the candidates for election to these top positions, and submit its recommendations to the National Executive Committee, which in turn is empowered to nominate only one name for each of these positions, and submit these names to the Party’s national Congress, which is empowered to elect, by secret vote of ‘YES’ or ‘NO’; as the case may be. However, there is one other important established convention, which must be followed in the election of the party’s national Chairman; which effectively forbids all other CCM members from entering the contest for the position of national Chairman. This, to some observers, may appear to be an unfair provision, for the reason that it creates discrimination against all other CCM aspirants. Hence, it needs some clarification, which is the this is not a strange provision, for there are other such provisions even in the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, which make provision for such positive discrimination in the case of the parliamentary “special seats” for women. This has sometimes been challenged as being discriminatory against men who aspire to enter Parliament. But it has been successfully defended, and continues to operate. Secondly, at the time of introducing this provision in the CCM rules, (I was chairman of the Rules Committee); we drew inspiration from a similar British convention, which is normally applied in relation to the election of the Speaker of their House of Commons. The said convention restricts open election contests in the constituency in which “the Speaker is seeking reelection”. That restrictive convention is described in the Parliamentary “book of authority”, Erskine May, at page 190, as follows:- “At a general election, he stands as ‘the Speaker seeking re-election’; and no other candidate enters the election race in that constituency”. These considerations were what formed the basis of our decision to enact this particular provision in the CCM election rules. The application of the said convention This convention is what prevents other CCM aspirants from entering the race for the Presidency when the incumbent CCM President is seeking re-election for his second term. In that connection therefore, I should also draw attention to article 40 (4) of the Constitution of the United Republic, which provides as follows:- “Endapo Makamu wa Rais atashika Kiti cha Rais kwa mujibu wa Ibara ya 37 (5) kwa miaka mitatu au zaidi, ataruhusiwa kugombea kiti cha Rais mara moja tu” Thus, in view of this provision, because President Samia will have served for more than three years, she will be entitled to seek re-election only once; which will be in the forthcoming Presidential elections of 2025. Thus she will be “the President seeking reelection”. In view of the CCM convention quoted above; the door will therefore be firmly shut to other CCM aspirants to enter the race for the Presidency in the 2025 Presidential election. piomsekwa@gmail.com / 0754767576