MAINLAND Premier League’s defending champions, Simba are heading for Lake Zone conquest in the mission worth total 9 points. Simba, who will be in Shinyanga to face Mwadui at CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, are going there fullyarmed with all weapons that torched Mtibwa Sugar at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. The Premier League title race has turned a three-horse affair dominated by Young Africans, Azam and Simba. Young Africans are leading the title race with a slim one-point lead. They have bagged 51 points while Azam who beat JKT Tanzania 1-0 in Dodoma on Friday are second while Simba are parading 49 points at the third place. But Simba should not expect an easy ride against Mwadui this time around. Mwadui, who are placed at the relegation zone, are likely to take the match as the war for the survival, or else meekly return to the First Division League. A win for Mwadui will boost their survival battle as they are still at the bottom of the league log with 16 points from 25 games. And the situation forces them to fight like a wounded bull, a situation likely to make Simba play a cautious game. But to Simba, the victory may bring them to the second or even to the pilot seat if Yanga lose their today’s match. Besides targeting the Premier League title, Simba will be also involved in the race for golden boot as their traditional wearer Meddie Kagere is still commanding the race with 11 goals to his account. He is followed by Azam FC striker Prince Dube who has bagged 10 goals and the third place is held by his skipper John Bocco with 9 goals. The golden boot race battle will be a catalyst for Simba players especially Kagere, Bocco, Clatous Chama, Chris Mugalu, Bernard Morrison, Mzamiru Yassin, Said Ndemla, Ibrahim Ajib, Larry Bwalya and Mohamed Hussein, who are in the list as they will likely want to score to accumulate more goals. In the lake zone campaign Simba will play three matches beginning with Sunday’s game against Mwadui FC before facing Kagera Sugar at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba and their mission will wind with a match against Gwambina in Misungwi.