PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan advised Members of Parliaments not to fear constructive criticism they would be facing while in their lines of duty. The Head of State said the parliamentarians should be open for objective and constructive criticism in her government, because in a way that keeps them on the right track. In her address to the National Assembly, President Samia, however said, any challenge to the legislators should strictly be within the legislative language aimed at propelling the nation to the required heights. “Do not fear to criticise the government, instead be limited within the legislative language when you find things are not moving on as planned, and my ministers are not playing delivering in their duties, especially when they respond to your questions. They should always come up with the needed details,” she pointed out. Stressing she said: “May I caution that any criticism must not use harsh or abusive language, but should be confined with the Parliamentary status and diplomacy. Criticise us openly, objectively and constructively when arguments and issues are not advocating for national interest.” Equally, she noted that her government will take up any piece of advice and recommendations geared at national development as well as industrial growth of the country to improve the lives of the citizens. Elaborating, the President asked the legislators to focus on what they are supposed to discuss and issues, instead of dwelling on arguments which are not healthy to the nation. “Focus on issues, which are healthy to the nation and for public interest…there are a number of areas which require your attention and you have my support to foster national development,” said added. On his part, National Assembly Speaker, Job Ndugai assured President Samia of their full support in implementing the directives, saying as priorities of the government they will trigger economic development and improve the public socio-economic welfare. “The Parliament will be there anytime to implement the directives, and we are fully behind you to take the nation to its desired goals,” he added