ACADEMICIANS have wellregarded the late Edward Sokoine as a hardworking and patriotic leader with a sincere love for the nation. They described the late nononsense Prime Minister as a leader who focused on boosting the economy of all people, especially those in rural areas. Yesterday, Tanzania marked the 37th anniversary of the late Premier’s death. Among the academicians who spoke highly of the great leader were Issa Shivji -- a Professor of Public Law and Dr Lucas Kisasa a lecturer of Political Science and Public Administration all from the University of Dar es Salaam. Dr Kisasa described Sokoine as a hardworking leader, who put the interests of the majority Tanzanians ahead of anything else. In addition he said, Sokoine implanted discipline on civil servants. “He never tolerated corruption or injustice and those were among his attributes. I will remember him more as an executive than a politician. He was a patriot and a hard worker,” said Dr Kisasa. Dr Kisasa added that the late President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere appointed Sokoine in a very difficult economic period after the war with Uganda but he managed to restore order. On his side, Professor Shivji noted that Sokoine was a unique leader in so many aspects, especially in his philosophy and the concept of development. He noted that Sokoine’s philosophy focused more on national independence from the grip of imperialism. “For Sokoine, the concept of independence meant that for any nation to attain true development, it should be able to make its own decisions and effectively implement them,” he said. Prof Shivji also said that the late Sokoine also promoted intellectual freedom. “If you accept the concept of national freedom you must embrace the freedom of all your people intellectually. Bringing intellectual freedom to the people helps to build a solid foundation for development as the struggle against capitalists is a great struggle; the people must be mentally free,” he said. He also noted that the late Sokoine always advocated for food security in the country, encouraging all Tanzanians to actively engage themselves in farming activities, especially in food production. “It is good to consider that you cannot be independent if you are begging for food and the late Sokoine was well aware of this concept…he encouraged people to cultivate food crops in abundance and export if surplus was available. In fact, he did not just touch on food production but also emphasized on good nutrition for every Tanzanian,” recalled Prof Shivji. The third factor that Sokoine encouraged in the concept of development is to engage elites as the catalysts for development. He said Sokoine stressed the need to rely on local experts and not from foreign nations. Sokoine died on 12 April 1984 at the age of 46 in Morogoro when his car collided with another vehicle on the road from Dodoma to Dar es Salaam. The late Sokoine came through the ranks of the Tanzanian government; he served as both Defence and Social Services Minister and Minister of State in the Office of Vice- President. Meanwhile, the family of the late Edward Sokoine held a memorial service for the former Tanzanian Prime Minister at St Joseph's Cathedral in Dar es Salaam late yesterday