THE social support projects implemented by Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) have brought about change and improvement in the lives of local communities. Diageo, which is a mother company to Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL), social support projects are adhering to its bold sustainability set goals outlined in Diageo’s ‘Society 2030: Spirit of Progress’ plan. According to Diageo’s Chief Executive Ivan Menezes, “By setting both gender and ethnicity goals for the business to achieve by 2030, I believe we can break down barriers and help shape a more diverse and successful long-term business and society”. For example, (SBL) is championing the Kilimo-Viwanda Agro-scholarship programme that aims at strengthening the existing pool of agricultural experts in Tanzania, which is necessary for helping farmers increase productivity and, ultimately, their incomes. From 2019-2021, over 70 students have been enrolled in the scholarship programmes across local agricultural colleges like Kilacha in Moshi, St Maria Goretti in Iringa, Igabiro in Bukoba and Kaole in Bagamoyo. In agriculture development, the brand has a big network of local farmers whereby it helps 400 local farmers’ incomes who harvest maize, sorghum, and barley key for SBL beer production. They supply is up to 80 per cent of the company’s raw materials requirement a year. Another critical area the world is fighting for is the accessibility of clean water. Research shows that clean water will fall up to 40 per cent by 2030 due to a population increase. Women and girls will be the victims of this tragedy if accessibility near their premises is not improved. The 2030 plan is in tandem with the United Nations 2030 development goals designed – a ratified blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. Diageo supports water replenishment worldwide, and a movement initiated through a partnership with WaterAid, a UK based company. In Tanzania alone, Diageo, through SBL, has built 17 boreholes across eight regions from 2010. There are other boreholes in progress in Machochwe and Basuto in Serengeti and Manyara, respectively. Being a brewer of alcohol, SBL is working from grassroots to the national sphere by the government, the police and vehicle drivers