THE Court of Appeal has confirmed the 10 years’ imprisonment sentence imposed on a resident of Geita Region, Kija Japhet, for killing his wife. Justices Stella Mugasha, Ferdinand Wambali and Barkeh Sahel ruled against Japhet, the appellant, after dismissing his appeal he had lodged to challenge the jail term imposed on him by the High Court. "Having considered circumstances warranting interference with the sentence, the sentence of ten years of imprisonment imposed by the High Court is not excessive and we do not find any compelling reason to interfere with it. We find the appeal not merited and accordingly dismiss it," they ruled. During hearing of the appeal, the appellant had contended that the High Court did not consider the mitigation factors advanced before imposing the sentence and that the sentence imposed was manifestly excessive considering the circumstances in which the offence was committed. In the judgment, however, the justices were of the considered view that the High Court Judge was justified in having concluded that the appellant used excessive force which is an aggravating factor in sentencing. "The High Court Judge's conclusion is cemented by the post mortem report which shows the demise of the deceased to have been caused by severe head injuries and multiple bruises on the face, shoulders, left upper part of the back and both knee joints," they said. Moreover, the justices said the sketch map of the scene of crime sheds light on the nature of weapon used by the appellant to beat the deceased. Furthermore, they said, the appellant's reluctance to heed to pleas by neighbours to open the door and instead continuing to assault the deceased until when she was found lying unconscious in a pool of blood leaves a lot to be desired. "(This) contributed to the aggravating factor which led to termination of the deceased's life. We are satisfied that there was an aggravating factor of excessive force which the appellant used against the deceased," they said. The justices also looked at circumstances surrounding the occurrence of the offence and the mitigation factors, such as the appellant readily pleading guilty to the charge of manslaughter; being a first offender and being provoked because of the deceased's drunkenness before reaching into such conclusion. It was stated that the appellant and deceased cohabited as husband and wife for one year, residing at their homestead together with one Happiness Abel. On the fateful day, that is August 10, 2015 at around 7:30 pm, the appellant returned home and found the deceased not at the homestead. Shortly thereafter, the deceased returned home and sent Happiness to buy French fries (chips) and she obliged. Upon returning home, Happiness found the appellant and the deceased locked inside the house and were fighting. The girl pleaded with the appellant to open the door in vain, which forced her to call neighbours who heeded to the call and rushed to the scene of crime. Initially, the neighbours unsuccessfully pleaded with the appellant to open the door. Later, the appellant opened the door and told those who had assembled outside to leave the area, locked the room and continued to beat the deceased. The neighbours persistently mounted pressure on the appellant to open the door, which he ultimately obliged, and upon entry, they found the deceased unconscious lying on the floor in a pool of blood. The deceased was taken to Nyarugusu dispensary and later referred to Geita District Hospital where she succumbed to death. Following investigation, the appellant was arrested and arraigned in court for the offence of murder, but he offered and pleaded guilty to a lesser offence of manslaughter. The appellant was in the High Court convicted on his own plea of guilty for a lesser offence of Manslaughter contrary to sections 195 and 198 of the Penal Code and subsequently sentenced to imprisonment for a term of (10) years imprisonment.