THE Turkish Embassy to Tanzania will continue cooperating with the government to ensure development projects tendered to companies from the country are implemented with professionalism and value for money respected. Addressing members of the press in Dar es Salaam recently after taking children from four orphanage homes to visit and witness the progress of the construction of the Tanzania Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Turkey’s ambassador to Tanzania, Dr Mehmet Gulluoolu said any single cent pumped into the project will be accounted for. “For instance, Turkey’s Yapi Markez Company is a reputable firm with reputable professionals and will make sure the work assigned to them is implemented as earlier discussed,” he pointed out. He said his country was behind Tanzania in implementing major development projects, especially the construction of the SGR railway which demonstrates the ability of the company to build strategic schemes. “We are pleased to be part of the implementation of major projects in Tanzania, you have seen our potential and efficiency, and we promise to continue supporting and delivering as expected. Don’t hesitate to seek our help when you need us,” said Dr Gulluoolu. He further said such supervision and close monitoring by the embassy will be maintained to make sure any loophole is sealed and Tanzania gets what it deserves in the share, adding: “Look, today (on April 23) is Children’s Day in Turkey, and we must make sure they are happy with this kind of trip, equally Tanzania must be happy with our work.” Commenting on the project, Engineer Makseli Mapella who works at the Yapi Markez Company said the first phase of the project covering 220km from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro has been completed by more than 90 percent, adding: “The second phase from Morogoro to Dodoma covering about 300 kilometers is progressing well. ” The caretaker of the Mbagala Kizuiani Voluntary Centre with 64 vulnerable children who had the opportunity to visit the project, Aminajat Kilemeha thanked the Turkish Ambassador for joining the children. The railway system from Dar es Salaam, once completed snaking its way through Morogoro to Dodoma, will link the country with neighbouring countries of Rwanda and Uganda, and through these two, to Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo, as part of East African Railway Master Plan.