POLICE in Dar es Salaam is holding 49 people for allegedly involving in theft of motorcycles, vehicles and their spare parts. According to the Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Lazaro Mambosasa, the suspects in question are also facing charges of buying and selling stolen motorcycles, vehicles and spare parts. He said during the police operation, the suspects were found with ten motorcycles of various types, spare parts and one Toyota Noah which has been used to carry stolen things. Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Mambosasa further said the suspects were also arrested with various vehicle parts such as doors, side mirrors, power windows, radios, and car lights. “The names of the suspects are currently being kept for investigation purposes, and the operation is ongoing, all the suspects are being questioned and will be taken to court after completing all legal preliminary formalities,” he said. However, SACP Mambosasa called upon the public to continue cooperating with police by reporting crimes and criminals to further strengthen the security of the city. Equally, he sounded a warning to people trying to be involved in the theft of cars, motorcycles and spare parts to stop, saying police force will reach them wherever they run or hide. A recent report released by Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro early this month noted that for the past three months, different offences have reduced, but drugs’ abuse was still on the rise. “For three months’ crime rate has decreased by 19.1 per cent and road safety offences have decreased by 14 per cent, but abuse and illicit drug is still a problem. We must understand that police alone cannot solve this problem as it is a matter of moral erosion,” said IGP Sirro He added, “We call on religious leaders to help us curb the problem, also basic education should be provided for people to change their mindset.” According to a report released by the Police Force early this year, the number of crimes reported in the country fell by 15.5 per cent in 2020. The figures indicated a sharp year-on-year drop in the overall crime rate from 58,590 cases reported between January and December 2019 to 50,689 cases in 2020. Meanwhile, more than 18,000 residents of Dar es Salaam have reported to the One-Stop Centre Mobile for help in the face of sexual violence against men