PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has made yet more appointments on key government positions --picking experienced and competent officials who are able to promote efficiency in public service delivery. She retained almost all permanent secretaries and deputies with a few of them switched to other ministries, signaling trust and confidence she bestowed upon her predecessor, the late President John Magufuli. Although the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania offers the president all the rights to pick new permanent secretaries, she chose to retain them, thanks to their performance. Though their record might have been the main reason for their re-appointment, what will make them stay longer in their posts is the ability to deliver and meet expectations of both their appointing authority and Tanzanians. We wish them all the best. Being part of their previous appointing authority, it is evident that the new Head of State has decided to give them time to demonstrate their capacity to deliver, and, it is beyond a shadow of doubt that underperformers will face the exit door in a little while. The trust the new leader gave them must be paid back by working more diligently and putting the interest of the nation ahead of everything. It is on the record, just like her predecessor, she reminded her aides to make sure that they deliver, embrace patriotism, integrity and stay away from corruption. From the speeches she has made when swearing-in various officials including the recently appointed ministers and deputies, the Head of State apparently sends a clear message that she is a results-oriented leader who is short of time to waste when it comes to issues of development and service delivery. From the looks of it, the new reshuffle made by the president on permanent secretaries and other key top government positions validates her competence and ability in arranging the team that would help the country achieve its socio-economic development agenda. We are sure the team holds a bright future for Tanzania as we remain hopeful that the squad is made of personnel who are extremely devoted, talented and focused to post results and transform the country. As we join other Tanzanians to congratulate them on the trust bestowed upon them by the Head of State, the new appointees need to work hard to meet people’s expectations. To ensure performance as promised in the ruling CCM manifesto, the country needed strong, visionary and self-motivated civil servants who are ready to work and ensure all promises made by the government are effectively implemented.