AS Muslims prepare to start the Holy month of Ramadan globally, Zanzibar President Hussein Ali Hassan Mwinyi has warned traders against hiking food prices and other services. Normally during the month of Ramadan, traders have developed a tendency of increasing prices of commodities and services without justification. Dr Mwinyi asked them not to do so on Sunday and instead advised them to use the opportunity to seek forgiveness and get closer to God by being fair in trade. In his message after Friday prayers at 'Amani Mosque' in the City, President Mwinyi said already there are indications of increasing prices of some food items and commodities as the holy month gets closer. "We understand the current global Covid-19 pandemic is affecting our businesses, but that should not be an excuse to sell goods at higher prices," he said. He said the government is on alert on any trader who will dare to increase prices contrary to the market price. Dr Mwinyi said the government will not hesitate to take stern measures against dishonest traders. According to Muslim teachings, the month of Ramadan is a time of spiritual reawakening which demands believers not only to abstain from food and drinks, but also all wrongdoing in their lives. “Sometimes some traders have been using this period to increase food prices and make super profit, this is wrong and unacceptable, everyone must be fair in his area,” he noted. Dr Mwinyi advised wananchi to observe religious teachings to avoid bad practices, as he reminded leaders and those holding top positions to diligently serve the people. Moreover, President Mwinyi urged government leaders and officials to focus on serving people by listening and resolving their problems. “Leaders must serve people diligently, our focus must be on people who gave us the opportunity to lead them,” he said. President Mwinyi expressed his appreciation to wananchi for observing peace and unity during the by-elections that took place in Kinuni Ward in Unguja and Pandani Constituencies in Pemba. “We have remained one even during election campaigns, this is very encouraging, and it is a sign of growing democratically,” he said. The Cleric at the mosque, Sheikh Rajab Mohammed Faki, on behalf of wananchi said they were saddened by the death of Dr John Magufuli, the fifth phase president and the former first Vice-President of Zanzibar, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad. “We have lost two great leaders within a short period of time, we are praying for their souls to rest in eternal peace,” said Sheikh Faki.