COAST Region has continued to record a low number of maternal deaths which is attributed to close supervision, community awareness and availability of emergency medical services. Regional Reproductive Health Coordinator, Ms Joyce Gordon said recently during a regional medical meeting held in Kibaha Town that they still expect the number to continue going down this year due to various efforts being undertaken to save lives of expectant mothers during delivery. “In the first quarter of 2020, we recorded a total of 12 deaths in our region, but this year the number has dropped to 8 deaths. We are also very grateful that we have not recorded any maternal death during the entire month of January this year,” she said. Coast region had alarming number of maternal deaths in the previous years, but it has been working on focused strategies to control the situation through Comprehensive Emergency Obstetrics and Newborn Care(Cemonc) and Basic Emergency Obstetrics and Newborn Care (Bemonc), and the results have been encouraging for the last three years. As part of improving reproductive health services, Ms Gordon said that Regional Health Department in collaboration with Korean Foundation for International Health (KOFIH) has produced booklets which provide guidance to expectant mothers when they attend clinics. The booklets will be provided to all expectant mothers in all districts in the region. In another development, gynecologists’ from Tumbi Regional Hospital in collaboration with their Muhimbili National Hospital counterparts have conducted mentorship training in eight councils of the region from January this year. Among other things, the training aimed at equipping medical staff at district hospitals with Standard Operative Procedures (SOPS) skills while in labour wards. On the other hand, the two week trainings on Comprehensive Emergency Obstetrics and Newborn Care (Cemonc) and Basic Emergency Obstetrics and Newborn Care (Bemonc) have been conducted in the Kibaha Town, Kibaha District, Rufiji, Kibiti and Kisarawe with support from KOFIH. Coast Region has a total of 391 health centres, and 291 of these centres are providing reproductive healthcare.