TANZANIAN envoys Simba seek to finish off Al Ahly so as to complete their CAF Champions League group stage with unbeaten run. The Match Day 6 encounter has been moved to Al- Salam WE stadium in Cairo. The teams go for battle that won’t change the Group A standings as both sides have already booked tickets to play in the tournament’s quarter final stage. Simba who command the group’s helm with unassailable 13 points, will remain at the top even if Al Ahly(Red Devils) win the today’s match by a big margin as they will only end their campaign with 11 points. Simba have been very successful this season where they have won four of five games, drawn once while conceding only one goal in the group stage. In the four games they have won include the hard-earned 1-0 over Al Ahly at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, Dar es Salaam. They had previously defeated AS Vita 1-0 in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo before stamping a sweet 3-0 victory over El Merreikh of Sudan in Dar es Salaam. The win came after a barren draw in Khartoum three days earlier. The group A standing places As Vita with four points as the third-placed team while El-Merrikh are tailing with two points. However, Simba ought to win their away match; they will not only tally their points, but also build more confidence ahead of their quarter final race besides bringing much respect for the country. Simba left Dar es Salaam for Egypt on Tuesday with a squad of 26 men and the team stayed for one night in Dubai before heading to Cairo this Wednesday. After their arrival Simba had the opportunity to practice and thereafter they received a gift of cake from Egyptian Airlines for the success they achieved but also wished them good luck to their forthcoming games and if possible reach African Champions League finals. During the departure Simba’s Head Coach Didier Gomez made it clear that he wants to maintain the best performance they have shown despite qualifying for the quarter-finals and that is the reason why they left with a full squad for the game. With Simba continuing to do well in the group stage, their players have also been in great shape. This is after the attacking midfielder Clatous Chama was named the Champions League Player of the Week in the fifth round games following his impressive form against AS Vita on April 3rd. In the match played at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, Chama scored a brace and issued an assist in a 4-1 victory. The Zambian star has beaten Amiri Sayoud (CR Belouizdad) Ricardo Goss (Mamelodi Sundowns) and Ferjan Sassi (Zamelek) after lodging 51 per cent of the vote. Chama becomes the second player from Simba’s squad to be named the Champions League Player of the Week after Luis Miquissone did so last month. Simba’s feat in the group A stage is the best ever performance by a Tanzanian team since the tournament’s inception over eight decades ago.