BANDARI College is implementing an ambitious plan to upgrade its courses to Bachelor degrees as part of strategies to improve port operations. The plan would also play part in enabling Tanzanian ports improve performance to increase their contribution to the national economy. Operating under the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), the college is currently finalising a study to establish market needs for the introduction of degree courses. The college Principal Dr Lufunyo Hussein disclosed this in an interview ahead of its 19 graduation ceremony to be held tomorrow, and officiated by Works and Transport minister Dr Leonard Chamuriho. The graduation will feature 338 graduates, among them 105 taking diploma courses and the remaining 234 getting certificates on various programmes. “Plans are in the offing for the college to start offering degree programmes upon completion of the ongoing development of the curriculum for it to be accredited by the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE),” Dr Hussein said. He explained that the major objective is to provide TPA with competent and skilled personnel for its daily acitivities. The curriculum, he said, will be prepared in accordance to the specified set of skills and knowledge needed by employers for the graduates to be able to secure jobs after completion of their studies. Dr Hussein is of the view that the performance of Tanzania ports is a result of the skills and knowledge that TPA staff get from the college, and that it would continue coming up with relevant programmes and studies for the sake of helping to improve port efficiency. Currently, the college is providing short and long-term studies in the fields of Shipping and Port Management, Engineering and Port Equipment Management, Logistics and Freight Forward Management at Certificate and Ordinary Diploma levels. Dr Hussein noted that the college would lay accent on training TPA workers and those from allied institutions for the sake of increasing productivity in freight forwarding and the marine sector. Right now, the college has 896 students up from 697, who were admitted in the last academic year. Speaking of gender distribution at the college, Dr Hussein said women are 60 per cent against 40 per cent men in the Shipping and Port Management together with Freight, Clearing Forwarding and Ports Management courses. But for Engineering and Equipment Maintenance courses have been dominated by men at 100 per cent. At least 90 per cent of students who were taking short courses for the intake which ended in December last year were men against 10 per cent for women. The intake also saw the college receiving four foreign students where two were from Burundi and others from Rwanda and Comoro.