AFRICA College of Insurance and Social Protection (ACISP) is set to host an insurance distribution channels convention aimed at connecting stakeholders and distributors of insurance services in the country. The meeting which is scheduled to be held on Friday in Dar es Salaam has been described as a gateway to help community members acquire necessary knowledge on the importance of insurance. ACISP Executive Chairperson Dr Baghayo Saqware told reporters in Dar es Salaam recently that the forum also aimed at supporting government’s implementation of financial sector development master plan 2020-2030 of having at least eight insurance distribution channels. He said the meeting would attract over 150 stakeholders and insurance agencies to discuss and interpret opportunities in strengthening the insurance industry in the country. He added that the forum would be held for the first time in the country and hence he called upon stakeholders to come in big numbers to get such opportunity to discuss on how insurance services can be enhanced. On his part, Sanlam Life Insurance Head of Sales and Distribution, Mr Samwel Nyaki applauded ACISP for coming up with such innovation, saying it was a good way to achieve the goals of ensuring that citizens understand a lot about insurance services in the country. He said it was important for the public to protect themselves from disasters by simply making sure that they get access to various insurance services which are available to them. In the same spirit, Head of CRDB Insurance Unit, Ms Maureen Majaliwa said they have been providing education about insurance to 200 bank branches in the country to increase awareness of insurance services. She said they would support the ACISP Initiative aimed at increasing efficiency in the provision of insurance services through distribution channels countrywide. ACISP was set up in 2020 as an initiative idea of a Pan African College that will provide a platform for on-going collaborative relationship between scholars, scientists, academicians and industry specialists to guide and steer the development of the insurance and social protection sector in Africa.