EXECUTION of flagship projects remains the government’s top priority, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa told the Parliament. The Premier raised the curtain for 2021/22 ministerial budget speeches in the parliament, highlighting six main areas of focus by the government in the next fiscal year, as championed by the late fifth-phase President Dr John Magufuli. According to Premier Majaliwa, major thrust will be put on speedy implementation of all strategic projects, carrying on the efforts and vision of the late Dr Magufuli. Dr Magufuli passed on suddenly on March 17 after losing his battle against a heart condition, with Samia Suluhu Hassan, who was the vice-president eventually ascending to the highest office. The Prime Minister emphasized that President Samia’s government will keep the legacy of her predecessor, who orchestrated major socio-economic reforms during his five-year plus presidency. The government will, among other things, ensure strong protection of national resources, maintain discipline on public funds spending and execute all key strategic projects initiated by Dr Magufuli, said Mr Majaliwa. He recalled that during his reign, the late Dr Magufuli also promoted Kiswahili language, fought corruption, empowered poor Tanzanians and strengthened national unity, affirming the new regime’s commitment to sustain those feats. Premier Majaliwa said during the next financial year, the government would channel its resources towards implementing strategic projects aimed at raising the economy, strengthening social services and creating new jobs. “The government will continue implementing flagship projects that are expected to bring big and immediate impacts in the economy. The main push would be on areas that motivate industrial revolution, job creation, socio-economic growth in order to assure that the economy becomes strong and competitive,” he stated. “With a speed which we have started with, the government will continue adding more vigor in order to complete ongoing projects,” Mr Majaliwa told the parliament here in Dodoma. He said heightening social services delivery including health services, education and implementation of related projects would be another area of emphasis. The Premier pointed out that measures would be taken to strengthen revenues collection, reducing unnecessary spending and controlling funds loopholes. The government would further cooperate with development partners in implementing the projects and various programmes intended to improve socioeconomic activities. There are several ongoing flagship projects in different sectors; energy, water, road and air transport and others. Some of the projects are Julius Nyerere Hydro Power Project (JNHPP), Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Kigongo- Busisi Bridge, Flyovers in Dar es Salaam and Hoima-Chongoleani crude oil pipeline. He further said the government would take steps to combat various disasters including pandemics by considering directives given by experts. “I call upon all Tanzanians, regardless of their political, religious or ethnic ideologies, to continue working hard, efficiently and honestly, while fighting corruption so that we sustain achievements that we have attained,” Mr Majaliwa appealed. Basically, the government activities for the 2021/22 would be focusing on implementing 2021/2022 National Development Plan, which is the first in implementation phases of the Third Five-Year National Development Plan (2021/22- 2025/26). The priorities of the development plan and the next government budget are based on five main issues of the Third Five-Year National Development Plan. These are triggering competitive and inclusive economies, heightening industrial production and services provision, boosting trade, motivating people’s development and developing human resources. For instance, he pointed out that implementation of major energy projects would enable the country to strengthen availability of reliable power at cheap prices for building a competitive industrial economy. Explaining about the current 2020/2021 budget implementation, Mr Majaliwa informed the House over great successes made during the year. Those included the construction of the SGR project, which the Dar es Salaam-Morogoro section (300km) has so far been completed by 90.34 per cent and construction of another section of Morogoro-Makutupora has reached 57.7 per cent. The implementation of the 2,115MW JNHP had reached 45 per cent by March, this year, whereby a total of 2.1tri/- has been spent and 7,000 jobs created. Project to electrify the villages (REA III) was another achievement, noting that by February, this year, a total of 10,294 out of 12,317 villages have been connected to power, with 323.7bn/- spent during the financial year. “Supply of electricity to these villages have enabled over 25 million people to access water service, thus making water availability to reach 86 per cent in urban areas and 72.3 per cent in rural areas,” he explained. By last March, this year the government had spent 241.3bn/- on water projects and works for supplying water in rural areas were on progress. The Prime Minister asked the House to approve his office’s proposed budget of 116.78bn/- for the next fiscal year, of which 93.3bn/- is for recurrent and 23.48bn/- for development expenditures. The PM also asked the House to endorse another 128.87bn/- for the Parliament Fund, out of which 121.87bn/- is for recurrent and 6.99bn/- for development projects.