YOUNG Africans caretaker coach Juma Mwambusi was full of praise of center-back Dickson Job for his good performance against Biashara United over the weekend. Yanga snatched a slim 1-0 win from the Mara based club at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam to continue navigating the league table as the season marches to its finishing line. Yanga’s slim victory cements their lead at the table with 54 points from 25 matches, setting a five-point gap with close challengers, Azam FC from their 26 matches. A second half header from Yocouba Sogne was enough to bring back smiles to the members and fans of the Jangwani Street club ending a series of back to back draws in their previous matches. “I believe in all the players I have in my squad and I already told them that they will get playing time basing on the work-rate they do during training sessions. “For Dickson, the case was different because it was his debut match to play for Yanga but I told him prior to the match that he should take the game seriously and he performed according to instructions,” Mwambusi said at a postmatch briefing. Commenting on their next match against Gwambina, Mwambusi narrated that he is aware that the game will be difficult but insisted that they will fully prepare to pocket another vital three points. “I know that Gwambina is not a team to be underestimated as they have quality players capable to win matches but playing on this pitch, they are warmly welcome,” said him. His counterpart for Biashara United Marwa Chamberi said his charges were not efficient to utilise well mistakes made by Yanga. “In the first half, we created many scoring opportunities but when it came to finishing, we were not good enough to slice the ball into the back of the net,” he said. He therefore urged Biashara United supporters to continue rallying behind the team in order to get extra rhythm of winning their remaining matches. Nicknamed ‘border soldiers’, Biashara United have been among the best performing teams in the unfolding league season especially when the team was under the tutelage of Francis Baraza who is now at Kagera Sugar