KAIRUKI Pharmaceuticals Industry Limited (KPIL) is planning to start production of pharmaceutical products, including medicines in a month’s time, it has been stated. According to Kairuki Health and Education Network (KHEN) Vice Chairperson Dr Muganyizi Kairuki, 60 per cent of pharmaceutical products will be sold in the local market while 40 per cent will be meant for export, with East African and SADC countries given special priorities. According to Dr Kairuki, everything goes according to plan. “We are only waiting for power and water connection to the project site,” said Dr Kairuki. KPIL is implementing a 45bn/- investment at Zegeleni in Coast region. Dr Kairuki said the production of the pharmaceutical products is based on the latest technology of production of intravenous infusion using polypropylene bottles and euro-cap. “The plant, will have 200 direct employment and indirect employment of about 500 people,” Dr Kairuki said when receiving Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who toured the plant on Tuesday. The plant has already imported raw materials for medicine production and the operations are expected to kick off in months’ time. The plant has already recruited the staff. The vice-chairperson said production at KPIL is envisaged to run in three main phases. In the first two phases, the plant will have two production lines with a capacity of producing almost 60 million units annually. The plant has the capacity of producing 55 million bottles of intravenous infusion annually and will start manufacturing nine types of intravenous infusion. In future KPIL will expand to manufacture tablets, capsules, suspension and medical devises. “Our mission is to produce a broad range of high quality pharmaceuticals and medical products for the local and the international market at competitive prices,” Dr Kairuki said. Kairuki Pharmaceuticals Industry Ltd(KPIL) is owned by Kairuki Health & Education Network (KHEN) just like Kairuki Hospital (KH), Hubert Kairuki Memorial University (HKMU) and Kairuki School of Nursing (KSN). The KPIL has procured and installed state of the art--good manufacturing practice (GMP) compliant technology of Word Health Organisation (WHO) and Tanzania Medicines and Medical Devices (TMDA) standards to produce various types of IV solutions.