THE Agricultural Seed Agency (ASA) is contemplating on establishing special exhibition centres in the twin regions of Dodoma and Tabora. The envisaged facilities will be tailored for training farmers and agricultural stakeholders in the central zone corridor over applications of improved and hybrid seed varieties for food and cash crops that are flourishing in the regions. According to ASA’s Chief Executive Officer, Dr Sophia Kashenge, the state-owned agency has decided to venture into the project to fuel efforts by the government to improve agronomic practices among farmers in the country. She said that ASA was strategising to implement a series of intervention with the intention of heightening production and availability of the improved seeds varieties in the country. Dr Kashenge said, “In 2021/2022, the agency is expecting to increase seed production from between 1 and 1.8 tonnes to 1.8 and 2 and 1-8 per hectare.” According to her, the agency’s general production of improved seed varieties is projected to also improve from the current 1750 to 3750 tonnes by 2022. “For instance, we’re targeting to produce at least 800,000 seedlings of improved palm oil by June 2022,” she stated. The other plans, according to her, include constructing and improving warehouses for professional storage of seeds, the initiative to be implemented in tandem with installation of special seeds drying venues. In further efforts to push for development of the vital economic sector, she added that plans are afoot to build an office and modern seed warehouse facilities at the Kilimi and Kilangali seed farms as well as renovating the warehouses at the agency’s headquarters in Morogoro. She added that ASA is planning to give special priority to increase seed production of the key economic cash crops, ranging from sunflower, oil palm and wheat. “We’re also planning to install a modern seed drying area at ASA’s headquarters,” she said. Dr Kashenge further said that the agency was also planning to procure a modern seed package plant machines to be installed at the agency’s Arusha based seed farm. During the 2020/21 fiscal year, the government injected into the agency a sum of 5.35bn/- to help implementation of numerous projects under the Agricultural Sector Development Programme (ASDP II). She said the amount was spent in some key projects, including production of sunflower seeds, sesame, palm oil and wheat seedlings, including procurement of a modern tractor and boom sprayer. “The budget enabled the agency to renovate and construct new warehouses, construct seedling buildings as well as installing a modern irrigation scheme,” she expressed. During the 2019/20 fiscal year, the government mandated ASA to coordinate a strategic project for the production of improved seeds for the crop. In a successful result, the state -owned agency has so far managed to produce at least 8,270 tonnes of the crops’ seeds. “The seedlings were produced in 38,000 hectares areas,” Dr Kashenge said.