PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday instructed the relevant ministry to solve grievances of People with Disabilities (PWDS) in the country. Speaking at the swearing- in event of the newly appointed permanent secretaries, deputy permanent secretaries and heads of public institutions at the State House in Dar es Salaam, President Samia said the government decided to shift the special group to Prime Minister’s office for close supervision. “These people have a lot of grievances, please listen to them and make sure you solve their problems, in case you fail to solve them you can forward them to a higher authority,” she said . According to Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania (CCBRT) Hospital, 4.2 million Tanzanians are living with a disability. Persons with Disability Act, 2010 defines disability as the loss or limitation of opportunities to take part in the normal life of the community on an equal level with others due to physical, mental or social factors. And, a person with a disability is a person with a physical, intellectual, sensory or mental impairment and whose functional capacity is limited by encountering attitudinal, environmental and institutional barriers. For decades PWDs face myriad challenges such as abuse, lack of education, illiteracy, and unemployment and despite the available international law and national laws that protect their rights, the implementation of such laws is at a very low stage. A study titled ‘Employment of Persons with Disabilities’ conducted by CCBRT in 2020 to assess the proportion of employed PWDs in education, health and private sectors indicates that among all 24,552 teachers surveyed from all learning institutions in Dar es Salaam, Lindi, Mbeya, Singida and Tabora only 519 equivalent to 2.1 per cent were PWDs. In the health sectors, among all 738 health employees surveyed in Dar es Salaam, only 17 equivalent to 2.3 per cent were PWDs and in the private sector, the survey associated 72 companies in Arusha, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro, Morogoro and Tanga and among all 20,568 employees surveyed, only 86 equivalent to 0.4 per cent were PWDs. The report also indicates that there is a gender imbalance of employment opportunities for PWDs as men with disabilities are more employed than that of their counterparts and that the working environment is not friendly to PWDs. The report finally suggested and recommended that the government should go beyond enactment of legislation on employment of PWDs through intensifying awareness-raising efforts towards disability policies and legislations to public and private sector’s employers as an attempt to encourage them to employ people with disabilities (PWDs).