THE Vice-President Philip Mpango told newly appointed Permanent Secretaries and heads of some government entities that they owe the nation an extremely hard work and each of them has to ensure public resources are safeguarded. Dr Mpango said this at the State House in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, at an occasion, where President Samia Suluhu Hassan administered swearing in ceremony of seven permanent secretaries, nine deputy permanent secretaries of different ministries and three heads of public entities. The president had made appointments for the posts over the weekend. Shortly after their swearing in at the State House in Dar es Salaam, Dr Mpango insisted that the new appointees have a big debt to pay to the President and the Tanzanians at large, and that was through working very hard to deliver. “Each one of you should go and effectively supervise public resources in their portfolios. You are supposed to be very careful while implementing rules and regulations when spending the resources,” Dr Mpango emphasised. He cited some of the resources that need keen supervision as including vehicle fuel and repairs of the government cars. Dr Mpango also demanded proper supervision of human resources within the ministries and public entities, saying public servants must be well guided for them to provide effective and efficient services to the public. “There is a problem in this; you need to work on it when you go there,” he counselled them, adding that effective management of the ministry’s budget was something they should also look at. Dr Mpango criticised that several ministries had tendency of requesting budget re-allocations, something which shows that they lacked proper management or planning of the budget. He told the new PS to ensure that they supervise the budgets properly to avoid time-to-time requests for budget re-allocations. He further said the permanent secretaries and heads of public institutions have a big role to play in order to elevate the country from the low-middle income status to high income status. “We want you to use your expertise to achieve this because you are the engine of the ministries and institutions,” he insisted. In July last year the World Bank announced that the Tanzanian economy had been upgraded to lower-middle income status. The upgrade for Tanzania is the product of the country’s strong economic performance of over 6 per cent real gross domestic product (GDP) growth on average for the past decade. On other hand, he spoke of the union challenges, which are directly under his portfolio, directing the authorities responsible of resolving the challenges to work on finding solutions to the remaining challenges. Last week, the President Samia hinted that only union financial matter has remained as a big challenge.