POLICE in Kagera Region are looking for a suspect, following a gender violence-related incident where a five year old girl child (name withheld) was raped causing her to suffer severe injuries. Acting Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC), Assistant Commissioner (ACP) Maketi Msangi, named the suspect as Godfrey Mushobozi, a resident of Bukoba Rural's Bulinda village. "We appeal for public cooperation with information where the suspect (Mushobozi) could be hiding leading to his arrest. We are still conducting investigations. But the incident happened at around 10 p.m. on March 19, this year at Bulinda village," he noted. However, the grandmother of the child, identified as Ms Joyness Habibu (43), resident of Bulinda village, in Kanyangereko Ward told reporters that she reported the incident at Bukoba Police station on the following day (March 20), where a Case file No BKB/RB/886/2021 was opened. "Since that date no action has been taken. The suspect (Mushobozi), who is the grandfather of the child was still walking scot free at the village. Worse still, he was threatening me," she said with tears running down her face. According to Ms Habibu, the child sustained severe injuries on her sexual organs and was admitted at the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital for two weeks. "Doctors at the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital have advised us to take the child to Bugando Medical Centre (BMC) in Mwanza City for further treatment, but unfortunately I do not have the money because I am a widow. I appeal to well wishers to assist me to raise funds to take the child to Bugando Medical Centre for treatment," she said. She also appealed to residents in the region to take a holistic approach in eliminating gender based violence (GBV) and violence against children (VAC), which are among cross-cutting issues. Violence against women and girls is one of the most prevalent human rights violations in the world. It knows no social, economic or national boundaries. Worldwide, an estimated one in three women will experience physical or sexual abuse in her lifetime. Gender-based violence (GBV) undermines the health, dignity, security and autonomy of its victims, yet it remains shrouded in a culture of silence. Victims of violence can suffer sexual and reproductive health consequences, including forced and unwanted pregnancies, unsafe abortions, traumatic fistula, sexually transmitted infections and HIV, and even death.