SIMBA’S Head Coach Didier Gomes said his club’s main goal is to ensure they win all major titles at the country and regional levels. Simba who are poised to win and defend the Premier League title are also targeting to win again the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) under the tutelage of the Frenchman. Speaking during his team training at Nyamagana stadium in Mwanza on Monday, Gomes said they need to be well prepared from practice to the matches’ sessions in order to achieve both goals. “We have a lot of matches ahead of us and we will do a lot of training to keep ourselves fit and strong. We need to be careful with our players by resting them so that they don’t get injured,” he said. Adding, he said they need to make changes of their players regularly in each game while resting some of the players regularly as they have a lot of games to play. “It’s difficult to play one player in all matches. In the match against Mwadui FC we rested Luis and Thadeo Lwanga and in fact we need those players in our next matches,” Gomes disclosed. Speaking about their today match against Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba stadium in Kagera, the Frenchman said Kagera Sugar is a good team with quality players. “We respect our opponents because they are good. This forces us to play cautiously because we still have a lot of challenges when playing in the quarter-finals of the CAF Champions League. We will fight to win all our games,” He said. He said his team is playing away and should be prepared all the time to make sure they fight to win its matches so that it can stay at the top of the mainland Tanzanian Premier League. He said he urges the fans of their team to continue to cheer for their team and encourage them to do well in their competition. Placed 13th in the Premier League standings, Kagera Sugar have been troubling Simba in both of their home and away matches, though Simba have been superior to Kagera in the recent records. The second-placed Simba have bagged 52 points from 22 matches, they urgently need to win to reach 55 points. Kagera Sugar’s arena which hosts Simba has been among the tricky arenas for the visitors. During this season’s first round staged at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Simba won 2-0. During the 2019/20 season Simba had clobbered Kagera Sugar 3-0. Simba had to play tough against Kagera Sugar after picking two losses in a season before. It was on April 19th 2019 when Kagera Sugar beat Simba 2-1 at Kaitaba stadium in Bukoba and went on to seal a 1-0 win at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on May 10th 2019, in a match graced by the late President John Magufuli. 