TANZANIA'S top oil importer, Sahara Tanzania Limited has further expanded its mega petroleum product tank farm by another 50 per cent in five years since it started operation in 2015. Sahara, a subsidiary of the Nigerian-based energy conglomerate – Sahara Group announced in Dar es Salaam that it had doubled its storage capacity to 72million litres from 36million litres in 2015. “Sahara has expanded its infrastructure from 10 loading arms and 4 storage tanks with a combined storage capacity of 36million litres to 20 loading arms with 8 storage tanks, with a combined capacity of 72million litres,” said Olumuyiwa Aladejana, Country Manager, Sahara Tanzania Limited. The developments, according to Aladejana are in line with the company’s commitment to promoting the “availability and reliability” of top-quality petroleum products in Tanzania and other neighbouring African countries. The company has an ongoing expansion project aimed at increasing its storage capacity further to store more Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) and JET A1, he added. The project is expected to make Sahara Tanzania one of the largest storage terminals, providing an avenue for increasing employment opportunities and economic growth in the country. “It is also important to note that our terminal is automated, and we have since committed to the construction of 2 Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) tanks which gives a total capacity of 6,000cbm as part of Sahara’s drive for technological innovation and enhancing access to clean energy in Tanzania, Rwanda, Zambia, Malawi and Congo,” he added. Tanzania’s Vision 2025 represents a broad vision of development goals as a middle-income country by 2025, characterized by high-quality livelihoods; peace, stability, and unity; good governance; a well-educated and learning society; and a competitive economy capable of sustainable growth and shared benefits. The oil firm says it is committed to contributing to the achievement of such a noble target through operations in the energy sector and interventions by way of sustainable development projects. Aladejana said it was heartening to see energy conglomerate, Sahara Group and other leading Africa energy companies ramp up their competitiveness in the global energy market. He, however, noted that African countries need to harmonize their product specifications to boost intra-Africa transactions. Mwajabu Mrutu, Business Development Executive at Sahara Tanzania Limited said Sahara Tanzania’s commitment to bringing benevolence to the nation is enshrined in its corporate citizenship programmes. Mrutu said Sahara Tanzania’s interventions include upgrading the Library at Pugu Secondary School that serves over 1000 students and the provision of toilets and washrooms at Salma Kikwete Secondary School to promote the Sustainable Development Goal that speaks to good hygiene and sanitation. The company has also implemented several youth empowerment interventions, including career guidance and personal finance advisory sessions and the widely commended #MyFutureStartsWithMe conference that urged young Tanzanians not to give up on their dreams.