ABOUT six volleyball teams from Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions will today battle it out at the special bonanza ‘Tunakuenzi Chuma JPM, a volleyball bonanza that honours the late Tanzanian President, John Magufuli. Organised by Kilimagnet Volleyball Club of Kilimanjaro, the one-day event takes place at Indoor Urafiki Foundation court in Moshi. Event’s organiser Renovatus Sixmund from Kilimagnet, told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Moshi yesterday that preparation for the day-long competition has been finalised. Sixmund who is also an ambassador of Let’s Keep the Ball Flying from Netherlands, said Kilimanjaro Regional Sports Officer, Anthony Ishumi is expected to be the event’s chief guest. He said: “First of all we continue to extend our heartfelt condolences to Tanzania and the world at large for the loss of JPM and we congratulate the new President Mama Samia Suluhu for leading our country. “In this volleyball game, a lot of good things continue to be done so we are very grateful to the various institutions and companies that continue to invest in this game.” Sixmund stressed they have been organising several bonanzas in Kilimanjaro, but following the tragic loss of the Fifth phase President JPM, they saw it ideal to end the mourning by staging a volleyball event to honour the ‘Hero of the Nation’. He added that Late Magufuli was winner and generally they appreciate his efforts in promoting Tanzania in every sector including sports and arts. “So I came up with this idea of calling this bonanza ‘We Love You JPM Volleyball Bonanza’. “I have had to involve close stakeholders also to be able to coordinate this event so that it is staged smoothly and efficiently,” added Sixmund. He said that government official, companies and various institutions whose staff members grew up to be volleyball players will also play in the opening game, so that they too can honour late JPM. He named participating teams from Arusha as Arusha Champion, Golden Wings and Pentagon while those from Kilimanjaro are Kilimagnet Volleyball club, Maili Sita and New Generation. The winners, according to Sixmund, will be presented with a trophy and other awards. “We also appeal the government to focus on this game and give desirable support as it has big number of potentials too.” Sixmund also urged institutions, public and private Companies to come forth and invest in volleyball.