THE High Court’s Commercial Division has rejected the suit lodged by Diamond Trust Bank (Kenya) Limited, demanding repayment of over 380 million Kenyan Shillings as loan facility from Prime Catch (Exports) Limited and five other defendants. Judge Patricia Fikirini ruled against the Kenyan Bank, the plaintiff, after upholding two grounds of objections raised by defendants. Other defendants were Firoz Haiderali Jessa, Zulfikar Haiderali Jessa, Salim Haiderali Jessa, Nasiri Haiderali Jessa and Nadir Aziz Haiderali Jessa, the guarantors of the loan. In the grounds of objections, the defendants stated that the suit is misconceived and bad in law for being preferred as a summary suit against the guarantors who were not parties to the mortgage contrary to the law and were never served with any statutory demand or notice of default. Deliberating on the two issues, the judge noted that it is an undisputed fact that the plaintiff preferred a summary suit under summary procedure as provided for under Order XXXV of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) and that such are suits emanating from the deed of mortgage. According to her, looking at Order XXXV Rule 1(c) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the CPC, the law has provided categorically on instances where summary suits can be preferred which arose out of mortgages and reading from the pleadings it is evident Diamond Bank and Prime Catch entered into mortgage deed. The summary suit brought against (Prime Catch) is thus proper. The provisions cited has only mentioned the borrower who ought to be sued by the financial institutions such as the plaintiff for the monies secured by mortgage,” the judge said. She pointed out that the plaintiff could as well sue for redemption or for delivery of possession of the mortgaged property by the mortgagor which in the instance situation is the plaintiff. So far, she noted, the provision has stated nothing or mentioned anything relating to guarantors. It was the position of the judge that under the circumstances the guarantors could not essentially be sued under summary procedure since they are not parties to the mortgage deed. “It was thus incorrect and misdirection for the plaintiff file a suit under summary procedure, the procedure availed to only regulate parties who had signed a mortgage deed and not guarantors,” she said. The judge pointed out also that the submission by the plaintiff’s counsel that the defendants were all afforded leave to appear and defend the suit after the plaintiff has conceded to their application is misconceived. She said that being a suit for recovery of loan guaranteed by the five family members, under the summary suit procedure they would have ended up missing the opportunity to appear and defend themselves unless leave is sought and granted which in an ordinary civil suit such right was automatic. According to her, once service has been effected to the defendants would have 21 days or depending on the nature of the suit, right to file defence by way of written statement of defence. “This being a legal requirement and not discretionary decision, I am even hesitant to bring on board application of section 4 of Commercial Court Rules, that in administration of justice the Court should enhance justice rather than technicalities and effectively applying the overriding objective,” she said. On the point regarding statutory notice, the judge observed that it was not denied that there was no statutory notice served upon the defendants as stipulated under section 127 (1) and (2) of the Land Act. She pointed out that the whole idea behind the provision is to make the borrower aware that they have default repayment of the loan at the same time notifying the guarantors and that without such notice there was no way the guarantors would have knowledge of the default which had occurred. “By not serving the parties with the statutory demand notice, the defendants were caught unaware. Issuance of the statutory demand notice or default notice being a mandatory legal requirement, skipping it makes the suit considered as being brought prematurely,” the judge said.