PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has ordered the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports to lift the ban imposed on media outlets with immediate effect. However, she was quick to remind authorities that the ban should be lifted on strict condition that operators and owners follow all the laws and government guidelines governing the sector. She gave the instructions during the swearing-in event of the newly appointed permanent secretaries, deputy permanent secretaries and heads of public institutions at the State House in Dar es Salaam. “For the Ministry of Information, Culture Arts and Sports, I’m told that you revoked licences of some media outlets including online television stations.You should lift the ban and order them to obey government guidelines and laws,” she said. She added: “We should not give them a platform to accuse the government that it is squeezing press freedom.” The President instructed heads of the Ministry to ensure those who are given media licences are adhering to the ethics and laws of the land. According to her, the laws, rules and regulations, should be open and clear on the kind of penalty one is liable to upon proven to violate the law. “You must not ban just because you have that power, let’s lift the ban and tell them to follow the laws, government guidelines and the regulations,” she explained. In another development, Ms Samia instructed the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology to work on the people’s concerns on the rise in charges for internet bundles. She said, the Ministry should be punctual in addressing challenges instead of waiting for the complaints from the public. “I don’t want complaints of this kind to happen again, you have to address it accordingly,” she ordered. Last week, the government through Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA), suspended the new charges for internet bundles that were announced by the telecommunication companies. The move came after public uproar over the hike in charges. According to her, the Ministry should also ensure the effective usage of the National ICT Broadband Backbone under the state- owned Telecommunication Company, TTCL. “Currently there is a tendency of all investors in the telecommunication industry to rely on their own broadband, this is not good for the national security, we need to have only one working national broadband,” instructed President Samia.