THE fifth round of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) gets underway from April 28th with 16 teams fighting for quarterfinal slots in a knockout format. As usual, ASFC champions are honoured by representing the country in the CAF Confederation Cup where they get an opportunity to share the same pitch with decorated teams from different parts of the continent. On April 28th, it will be an all First Division League (FDL) match involving Rhino Rangers against Arusha FC to be played at CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. The two teams are the only sides from FDL to reach this far and search their luck of sneaking into the quarterfinals as such, one expect to witness a horsepower performance from them. A day later on April 29th, two matches will be played with Biashara United facing Ruvu Shooting at Karume Stadium in Mara while Azam will host Polisi Tanzania at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. Another entertaining set of matches are scheduled on April 30th which will see Shinyanga based Mwadui welcoming Coastal Union from Tanga at Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga. On the same day, Tanzania Prisons will be on parade ground ready to silence Young Africans in a pick of the day clash to be held at Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga, Rukwa region. Both teams have already met twice this season in the top flight league and none of them was superior over the other hence this time, a winner must be produced at the end of 90 minutes of footwork action. On May 1st, another two thrilling matches will be played whereby Dodoma Jiji will face KMC at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma with the former looking forward to make their maiden appearance in the competition’s last eight. Later on the same day, ASFC defending champions Simba will have to test Kagera Sugar, a match that Simba will be trying to prove that winning the silverware last season did not come by chance. The game will be played at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam where the Reds have been recording success stories as far as football in the country is concerned. On May 2nd, only one match will be staged to wind up the best 16 fixtures as JKT Tanzania will take on Namungo at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. Namungo who are in the group stages of the CAF Confederation Cup have already tested the sweet part of the contest as such, they will be eager to see off their opponents to sail into the next phase.