THE Coalition of Women and Constitution/Elections have expressed their delight to the priorities highlighted in President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s maiden address to the Parliament, saying they will significantly trigger the country’s development. In a statement released over the weekend, the coalition explained that the President’s speech highlighted the government’s priority that will greatly support women, girls and other marginalised groups. In the joint statement signed by Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP), Director Lilian Liundi named areas that hold key to Tanzanians’ happiness and prosperity of the country as the promise to defend democracy, which includes freedom of the people and press. “In implementing this, we see that there is an opportunity of formulating strategies that will not ignore participation of women and voices of women as part of this country’s society. “Our request to the President, when she meets leaders of political parties is to encourage them to exercise gender equality and democracy within their parties,” reads the statement in part. The coalition claimed that the current mining sector benefits more men than women; hence President’s declaration in august house that her government will bring changes in the area deserves to be applauded. The activists were optimistic that implementation of this plan will significantly benefit women to have a fair share from the lucrative sector in the country. They also mentioned inclusion in the agricultural sector, which employs most Tanzanians especially women. They argued that the President’s plan to improve agriculture’s role in the industrialization drive by producing more raw materials will certainly boost local farmers including women living in the rural areas. The statement also lauded President Samia for including investment and land ownership, which they termed as very ‘sensitive and contentious’ issues. “We are pleased with the President’s promise to ensure increased participation of women in land ownership, which is an important area for women in their participation to the development,” the statement added. Other areas mentioned by President and got right activists’ positive reactions were gender equality especially in leadership, reduction of infant and child mortality as well as general improvement of health sector. They also said the President’s commitment on accountability of public officials in the water projects will have a trickle down effects to women, since the move will ensure availability of water and subsequently shortens hours spent in searching for the precious liquid. The coalition also supports President’s determination to improve the country’s education sector by reviewing Education Policy of 2014, as well as education curriculums purposely to suit the current demands. “We hope that the review will be inclusive and will give priority to girls and children with disabilities in order to give all group the basic rights of quality education,” the coalition pointed out.