THE other day, I googled to find out how much money soccer clubs taking part in the African Champions League earned from quarter to the finals and I came to understand why Mo was so serious about Simba’s targets in the on-going tournament. Two years ago when the club entered the group stage of the tournament, the target was not an accident. Mo had told the Belgian coach, Patrick Aussems, his target was to get the team to the group stage of the tournament. The Belgian lived to the Mo’s expectations. But in the following year, Simba was eliminated in the preliminary rounds of the tournament by a nondescript Mozambican club. The Belgian was immediately shown the door. But a critical analysis on the players who had constituted the team showed clearly that they did not have the pedigree which could have helped whoever had been given the task to train the team to get it beyond the preliminaries, let alone the group stages of the tournament. Those who had been behind the club’s management appeared to have learnt their mistakes. And in the following year they bought players they thought had what it takes to get the team beyond the group stages of the tournament and this is what we presently see in the current Simba squad which was yesterday scheduled to take on the multiple Champions League winners, Al Ahly in their own den in Cairo, in their last match of the group stage. According to what I had googled, the latest prize money that a Champions League winner is supposed to get is 2.5m US dollars. The runner up is awarded 1.25m US dollars and that is certainly not small money. Now semifinalists are entitled to 875,000 US dollars and quarter finalists get 650,000 US dollars which I presume has already been pocketed by Simba who have not only reached the quarterfinal, but they are also group leaders. Simba are now two matches away from their semifinal target that has been given to their French coach. What this mean? It is simple, if Simba fail to go through this stage to the semis, the French man would be shown the door. But if Simba go through to the semis, they would be entitled to another prize money of 875,000 US dollars, hence bringing their total earnings to 1.53m US dollars. But if they win in the final, they would be entitled to a prize money of 2.5m US dollars. And if you add the foregoing sum with what they had already won in the quarter and semis, 1.53 US dollars, then their total earnings in the tournament would amount to 4.025m US dollars. But as we all know, to get there, a club needs very heavy investment in money and human resources in terms of the technical bench and players who need to have the pedigree to play with the best in the continent. Now if a club goes on to win the Champions League, hence earning the kind of money I have shown above, it would not be out of sheer luck that, that club attained that; but through heavy financial and human resource investment they have made in the team in the last three or four years. The foregoing is the kind of conversation that Young Africans now need to be engaged in. fortunately for them, there is already an investor in the form of GSM whom we are told discussions with the club’s management are said to have reached very high stage. My appeal to Young Africans is to expedite discussions with GSM so that this country can get another financially strong club that can take on the best in the continent. The point is, Simba require massive challenge from within if they are to do well internationally and to me Young Africans are the only club that can do that. And that is only possible if they are very strong, financially and in terms of human resource, in the form of players and technical bench. If you look at the kind of prize money that has been set aside by the continent’s soccer governing body for teams taking part in the Champions League, then it is easy to understand why clubs in the Maghreb have taken soccer very seriously. You can now imagine how much money the Egyptian soccer giants, Al Ahly (who have won the Champions League and the Cup winners Cup 15 times) have to date pocketed. If the foregoing figures are the kind of money a club can get after winning the Champions League, how much money have clubs like Al Ahly, Tunisia’s Esperance and others from Algeria, Morocco and the DRC have been earning after winning the Champions League? The kind of money offered clearly shows why clubs which have been winning this tournament are more or less the same clubs, year in, year out. They have always dominated the tournament because they have the money for ploughing back in re-building their teams. Simply put, you need money in order to get money. You need money, and a lot of it, if you want to build a club that can take on the best in the continent. No matter how many members and fans you have, you cannot win continental clubs tournaments through the sheer numbers of those behind you.