Attempt by a prisoner serving five years imprisonment at Isanga Mbeya Prison, Amon Mwalupindi, to be released on bail pending determination of his appeal by the Court of Appeal against his conviction of attempted murder, has hit a snag. This followed the decision of Court of Appeal to dismiss the application of its own kind for bail pending appeal lodged by Mwalupindi, the applicant, in a move leading to oppose the judgment of the High Court of Tanzania at Mbeya, which convicted him of such serious criminal offence. “It is clear that the application has not met the threshold for us to exercise our discretion to grant bail pending appeal. The application is without merit and we accordingly dismiss it,” the Justices Shaban Lila, Winfrida Korosso and Lugano Mwandambo ruled. During hearing of the application in question, the applicant had stated ill health, old age and attendant complications and need to appear and defend his case against him before the District Court of Rungwe as special grounds for consideration. In their determination, the justices of the appeals court pointed out that in considering whether or not bail should be granted pending appeal, the courts are guided by certain principles, including the onus is on the applicant, to satisfy the Court that justice will not be jeopardised by being granted bail. They pointed out that in deciding whether bail should be granted involves balancing liberty of the individual with proper administration of justice and the applicant must show existence of exceptional or unusual circumstances for the court to fairly conclude that it is in the interest of justice to grant bail. Another principle for consideration by the court is if it appears prima facie from the totality of circumstances that the appeal is likely to be successful on account of some substantial point of law to be argued. When applying the principles in question, the justices pointed out that whilst old age and ill health have been taken to be relevant factors in some cases, the applicant has not substantiated his claims. They said that as rightly submitted by the prosecution, old age or ill health alone without evidence to show how will impact on the applicant’s continued incarceration as a prisoner awaiting determination of his appeal cannot be a good ground for exercising the Court’s discretion under rule 11(2) of the Rules. “Put it differently, the applicant has not laid before us any material showing that his old age and ill health are such unusual and exceptional circumstances warranting the grant of bail pending appeal,” the justices said. They observed that the medical chits from Mbeya Zonal Referral Hospital supporting the illness show that the applicant has erythrocyte sedimentation which is rated provisional, the other one shows that the applicant has Rheumatoid factor with non-reactive status. According to the justices, such medical documents also show that the applicant has uric acid. All the medical chits indicate that the applicant was examined on January 17, 2020 and the reports were collected on February 20, 2020. “Suffice to state that if any of the said diagnoses was serious, one would have expected a more recent medical report showing the applicant’s current medical status,” they said. The justices were, thus, reluctant to endorse the argument that ill health constitutes an exceptional or unusual circumstance to warrant the exercise of our discretion to grant bail pending appeal in the instant case. This is because, they said, there was no valid and current medical report to support the applicant’s averments or an affidavit from the Prison Officers showing deterioration or otherwise of the health of the applicant, and that the situation cannot be best handled while the applicant is in prison. With regard to the age of the applicant, the justices pointed out that there is hardly any proof of the age other than the medical chits reflecting that the applicant’s age is 73 years old. “Be it as it may, we are not prepared to consider the age shown as constituting exceptional or unusual circumstance to warrant the exercise of the Court’s discretion to grant bail pending appeal,” they said. On the factor of attending to a Criminal Case against the applicant before the District Court of Rungwe, the justices failed to place such contention to any of the principles applicable in applications for bail pending appeal. “There is nothing before us to show that such attendance is an exceptional or unusual circumstance meriting the exercise of the Court’s discretion under rule 11(2) of the Rules. That contention is thus rejected,” they said. Regarding the ground that on whether prima facie the applicant’s appeal has any prospects of success, the justices sided with the position taken by the prosecution of refraining from addressing the Court on such aspect as could prejudices the merits of the appeal. This is the first time the Court of Appeal, the highest temple of justice is faced with an application for a convict of a criminal case to seek bail pending appeal. It has been happening on some occasions by some convicts from lower courts to seek bail pending appeal to the High Court. The grant of bail pending appeal is quite different from those applicable to bail pending trial. In applications for bail pending trial, courts are guided by fundamental principle of right to presumption of innocence whereas in bail pending appeal, the applicant who is a convict no longer enjoys that right.