AYUB Lyanga netted the vital winner that helped Azam beat JKT Tanzania and reclaim the Premier League’s second place while pushing Simba back to the third place. The highly competitive game was staged at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma as both sides looked well drilled for a hard fight. But it was Azam who laughed last with the lone goal. Azam have been among the top three teams in the Premier League for quite long time most of the time threatening the dominion of Simba and Young Africans. Lyanga broke the deadlock in the 21st minute after firing home an assist from Obrey Chirwa who had headed the ball to the scorer. The away victory has heightened Azam to the second position with 50 points as they have returned to the second position. Azam who played without their leading scorer Prince Dube, relied on Never Tigere, Iddi Seleman and Obrey Chirwa upfront and managed to dominate the game in the whole first half. In that period Azam created more chances than the hosts, but squandered most of them or else they could have won by a bigger margin. In just rare occasions that Azam goal which was guarded by Wilbol Maseke was troubled to make the keeper remain undisturbed in the whole first half. The two sides went into the break with Azam leading and on the resumption, Azam came back a rejuvenated side and pushed for more goals, but Idd Seleman who on good positions several times wasted chances to double his team’s lead. In second half, JKT seemed to wake up from a slumber to create frequent raids at Azam goal. Goalie Maseke, Nicholas Wadada, Agrey Morris and Yakubu Mohamed stood and were very alert to thwart all dangerous moves towards their goal. Azam, who have played 26 games, are now a point ahead of the defending champions Simba who have bagged 49 points from 21 games. Lwandamina’s side is however, a point behind leaders Young Africans before their today’s match against Biashara United. The defeat left JKT Tanzania at the 13th position with 27 points from 26-game outings. It is not a good position as they are only two or three points above the teams that have stuck at the relegation zone. The teams which crawl behind JKT Tanzania are Kagera Sugar with 26 points, Mtibwa Sugar and Ihefu FC with 24 each while Mbeya City and Mwadui are bottom-placed with 21 and 16 points respectively. Later on Friday, KMC punished Gwambina with 3-0 drib in another Premier League match staged at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Ali Ramadhan who scored the third goal for KMC had the most colourful goal in the match. And KMC had to wait until in the second half to take the match lead through Charles Ilanfya who had clean finish. KMC have now moved up to the fourth position with 39 points, they have leapfrogged Dodoma Jiji FC who have dropped to the fifth place with 37 points.