THE Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE) has urged the public to recognise the contribution played by women in different sectors in the country. ATE Executive Director Dr Aggrey Mlimuka made the call during the introduction of Female Future Cohort 7 session in Dar es Salaam. He said many companies have witnessed that investing in women contributes to having more competent leaders that increase capacity at workplaces. Dr Mlimuka noted that the Female Future Tanzania will be delivered for 14 days spread in 9 months, and will focus in enabling employers to have an effective business environment and risk management at the helm. He added that the programme aims to develop ladies to become more potential leaders capable of overcoming fear and managing fright when negotiating in various issues for their organisations. “We have 30 Female Future Cohort 7 ladies from several organizations of different sectors, this creates a challenging learning environment and develop exposed leaders for business development,” he said. Female Future Tanzania intends to increase capacity for ladies at workplaces to be more competent leaders in management positions, decision-making processes and on corporate boards. He said the objective of the program is to get more women into management positions, decision-making processes and on corporate boards. ESAMI Chief Consultant, Prof Apolonia Kerenge said the program was timely for the country and Africa in general because it helps to unlock the potential among women. CRDB Director of Human Resource Mr Siaphoro Kishimbo said they have been cooperate with ATE through involving candidate and witness big achievement in the different programme to provide space for women. The programme will not help us as a bank but as a country in general because employees will be able to increase effectiveness and risk management through developing and implementing growth strategies. Mr Kishimbo said there should be more support to the program so as to have a high number of enrolments of women management positions, decision-making processes and on corporate boards. Female Future Tanzania operates in partnership with ESAMI and after completion of the programme the participants will be registered as accredited directors of boards and professional leadership mentors.