TANZANIA Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has lifted ban on freelancers in the biometric SIM Card registration to continue with the business without any restriction. TCRA Director General, Dr Jabir Bakari said the service providers are allowed to exist in the exercise, but must make sure their ways do not affect other registration procedures. Making the declaration in Dar es Salaam on Thursday after his meeting with telecommunication heads, he said the authority is still re-evaluating the process on the best ways for the freelancers to serve the public. Earlier, TCRA directed service providers to suspend the use of freelancers in the biometric SIM card registration as from May 1, this year. The authority also directed the service providers to ensure the registration takes place at special places in accordance with the regulations of 2020 telephone line registration. “The registration process must be conducted in a professional manner, service providers must make sure that aspect is given priority,” he noted. Dr Bakari added that TCRA will continue to manage and monitor closely communication services for welfare and national prosperity, saying: “My office is also working on the Internet bundles and that whatever agreement reached will be in favour of the public.” Airtel company freelancer, Mr Yusuph Kiponza said the authority’s decision to lift the ban will enable them to continue with the business and participate fully in the country’s economic growth. He said all freelancers will adhere to the rules, regulations and directives as set by the authority to enable smooth and proper registration. The Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) is a quasi-independent Government body responsible for regulating the Communications and Broadcasting sectors in the country. It was established under the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Act No.12 of 2003 to regulate the electronic communications, and Postal services, and management of the national frequency spectrum in the United Republic of Tanzania.