THE High Court’s Labour Division has ordered Tanzania Cigarette Company Limited to pay their former Manager, Legal Department, Ms Lucy Mandara, over 904m/- as compensation for unfair termination of her employment services. Judge Iman Aboud ruled in favour of Ms Mandara, the applicant, after allowing an application for revision she lodged against the decision of the Commission for Mediation and Arbitration (CMA), which had ordered the Cigarette Company, the respondent, to pay her six months salaries alone. “Having found that the employer had no valid reason to terminate the applicant’s employment for the offences of gross misconduct, and the procedures for terminating her were not properly followed, I do not hesitate to say this application has merit,” the judge said. She proceeded to order the respondent to pay the applicant the amount claimed in the CMA Form. No. 1, whose grant total is 904,863,473/- and award her the certificate of service if it was not given. The judge, however, directed deduction of any sum paid to the applicant following her termination. Before the CMA, the applicant had requested for payments of 12 months basic salary for one year to 10 years (91,269,420/-), 11 years and more to 37 years (337,696,854/-) and computation of truncated four years to compulsory retirement (27,380,826/-). Others are computation of salaries for the truncated four months and four years to compulsory retirement (395,500,820/-), annual salary increment at 6 per cent per annum as custom (35,268,733/-) and severance pay (17,746,820/-), which makes the grand total of 904,863,473/-. In determining the application, the judge said that it is an established principle that, for termination of employee to be considered fair it should be based on valid reason and fair procedures. That is to say, she said, there must be substantive justice and procedural fairness of termination of employment. The judge found after going through the records that the evidence given does not prove the charges of gross negligence neither insubordination against the applicant as wrongly found by the Arbitrator of the CMA in the challenged award. “In other words, the respondent failed to meet the legal requirement to prove the allegation of gross negligence and gross insubordination to justify the applicant termination of employment on the basis of substantive fairness,” she said. The particulars of the offences charged, evidence on record and the whole circumstances of the matter indicates that the applicant may be could have been charged for poor performance of her duties and responsibilities, specifically the trademarks and licences portfolios. It was the firm view of the judge that may be, if proved would have been the valid reason for the respondent to take appropriate disciplinary action as stipulated in our Labour Laws and the Respondent’s Disciplinary Procedure and Code. According to the circumstances of the case, she found the employer, respondent failed to prove the charged offences against the applicant on the balance of probabilities as required in law. “I therefore, decide Arbitrator’s award that the applicant was guilty of gross misconduct, as she committed serious misconduct of gross negligence and gross insubordination was wrongly made and is hereby faulted by the court,” the judge declared. The employment relationship between the parties started on December 11, 1979 when the applicant was employed by the respondent as a Quality Controller (Moisture Tester). Later on, the applicant was promoted to the position of Quality Supervisor in the year 1981. Again, the applicant was promoted to the position of Manager, Legal Department of the respondent until her termination on September 05, 2016. It is on record that the applicant was terminated on the ground of misconducts, that is, gross insubordination and gross negligence. Having been aggrieved by the termination, the applicant referred the dispute to the CMA claiming compensation for unfair termination. The CMA found that the applicant was fairly terminated substantively. However on the part of termination procedures, the Arbitrator was of the view that the applicant was not afforded the right of representation. Following such finding, the Arbitrator awarded the applicant 6 months salaries as compensation for the procedurally unfair termination and a certificate of service. Again, being resentful by the Arbitrator’s award the applicant filed the present application for the Court to revise and set aside the Arbitrator’s decision.