GRUMETI Reserves investor has donated 450,000 US dollars (about 1bn/-) for the construction of the Roman Catholic Church at Nattambiso village in Serengeti District. Already, construction of the church is underway at the village bordering wildlife conservation areas that form an integral part of the Serengeti ecosystem. Grumeti Reserves is an ecotourism company that operates several world-class lodges in Tanzania. The church elders and local leaders have welcomed the project, describing it as a historical to be implemented at the village. “Indeed, we are so excited to get a nice place of worship. The number of believers at our church will definitely rise,” Ms Rose Nyambura, the secretary of the church said. Another Roman Catholic Church elder at the village, Andrew Nyakiboha, said the building with all facilities that makes the best church will enhance the village Catholics in terms of faith and spirituality. “We have received the support with two hands and we are seeing it part of the fruits of conservation. Thus, we feel that we have an obligation going to continue sensitizing our communities to value wildlife conservation and environmental protection,” Mr Nyakiboha said. A local village leader identified as Deogratius Mganga said: “This is the biggest project ever to be implemented at Natta-mbiso village since the establishment of this village.” Head of Human Resources Department at Grumeti Reserves Ms Martha Baare said the construction work is being done by Grumeti Construction, a sister company of Grumeti Reserves. She said construction of the church building which began in February this year, is expected to take six months. “The quality is high and the building is being constructed by local and foreign experts. It is going to be a modern church,” Ms Martha pointed out. Grumeti Reserves operates several world-class lodges in Tanzania including Sasakwa and the company has also heavily invested in conservation and community development in Serengeti through Grumeti Fund.