TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) has registered 151 projects worth 987 million US Dollars (about 2.3tril/-), which created 13,857 new jobs effective July last year. TIC Director Dr Maduhu Kazi told reporters in Dar es Salaam that between January and March this year, 51 projects worth 451 million US dollars (about 1tri/-) were registered, contributing 4,272 new jobs. He was speaking on the centre’s achievements. He said the unprecedented health and social disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, which led to the decrease of investment globally, also affected TIC’s role in attracting new investments in the country. TIC, he said, has been promoting different internal projects outside the country through the African desks in different zones. He said the move intends to help investors to get correct and relevant information regarding investment instead of travelling all the way to TIC headquarters in Dar es Salaam. “We appreciate good corporation we get from Regional and District Commissioners; they gave us their officers whom we are going to work with in the areas that TIC don’t have an office. We are confident that this is going to help a lot,” he said. Dr Kazi said on the technological side they did a lot of improvement whereby current projects requests can be processed and registered within three days and signed by the director even if she/he is outside the country by using the internet. He said inside TIC there is One Stop Facilitation Centre where different departments can process project certificates and provide license within a very short time. He mentioned some departments that are available under the One-Stop Centre as Immigration, Labor, Tanzania Revenue Authority, Ministry of Lands and Housing, Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA). He mentioned other institutions that are available under one stop facilitation center as National Environmental Management Council (NEMC), Tanzania Bureau Standards, Tanzania Medicine and Medical Devices Agency (TMDA) and OSHA. Dr Kazi said TIC will start to engage with Tanzania Private Sector (TPSF) in different forums to get their opinion and challenges facing investors in the country and see how to overcome them. He said TIC also engaged foreign diplomats to attract new investment and last year they managed to receive prospective investors from Korea, United State of America, India, Turkey, Austria, Japan and Poland where by 87 companies visited Tanzania to look for investment opportunities.