MINISTRY of Land , Housing and Human Settlement Development is working on a system that will allow taxpayers to pay part of their debt online instead of paying the entire debt at once. Deputy Minister for Land, Housing and Human Settlement Development Ms Angelina Mabula told the National Assembly here Friday that, the online payment system is simple and people can settle their dues without going to the ministry offices. “This system is very simple, the only challenge is that, it does not allow customers to pay part of their debt… the experts are currently working on it so that people can make payment of any amount they have,” she said. She was responding to a supplementary question by Special Seats MP Mwanaisha Ulega(CCM) who wanted to know when will the ministry enhance its payment network to allow people to clear their debt without visiting the ministry offices. The Deputy Minister, however, said that the government has no plans to scrap land ownership transfer fees because they were imposed to boost the country’s revenue collections. She was responding to a supplementary question by Mtama Legislator, Mr Nape Nnauye (CCM) who sought to know whether the government was ready to scrap the fee. Ms Mabula said that the government operations depend on taxpayers money thus the removal of the fee will affect some of its activities. She said the ministry is doing everything in its capacity to ensure regular reduction of the fees. Explaining further, Minister for Land Housing and Human Settlement Development Mr William Lukuvi said more than 90 per cent of Tanzanians who were issued with customary title deeds are not paying either annual fee or ownership transfer fee, adding that they have no limitation on ownership tenure like other title deeds issued in urban areas. In her basic question Nyasa MP Stella Manyanya (CCM) wanted to know if the government was planning to review land ownership transfer fees because the current charges are not friendly to poor Tanzanians. Responding, Ms Mabula said that land transfer ownership is being done according to the Land Act (chapter 113) Land Registration Act and other related laws. She said her ministry was responsible in overseeing land valuation, inspection, ownership transfer and registration fees. Ms Mabula said that registration fee is affordable to all Tanzanians. “The ministry has been reviewing these ownership transfer fees several times … in 2018/2019 premium charges was reduced from 7.5 per cent to 1 per cent which is charged only once during the land ownership process in urban areas and 2.5 per cent in other areas,” she noted. She added that the ministry has also reviewed land formalisation charges from 250,000/- to 150,000/- while other district councils charge up to 50,000/-.