IT is unfortunate that despite successive regimes punishing corrupt individuals mismanaging and embezzling public institutions’ funds, the culture is still practiced by some few people without realising that this is not only a crime in the country’s law. Whatever way you will look at it, there is no justification for ‘power to corrupt and absolute power to corrupt absolutely,’ instead should call for rational judgment when one is serving the public and handling taxpayers’ money. In our yesterday ‘Sundaynews paper’, we published a story where the government issued a one month ultimatum to Labour Division in the country, to shape up or face disciplinary actions in efforts to address bureaucracy and delays in issuance of work permits, which have been scaring away foreign investors. In the piece, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youths and the Disabled issued the ultimatum directing the Labour Commissioner to submit a report to her office on Wednesday (this week), on who has been involved and the motive behind delays in issuing nine work permits applied since last year and disciplinary measures to be taken. “You should go through the dispatches, and see who received the applications and where they got stuck since last year and advise on proper measures to be taken since such misconduct tarnish the government image, this won’t be tolerated” Ms Mhagama said. She said, her office will make a routine monitoring and follow up on labour division staff adding that “those who in one way or another, deliberately choose to be a setback to investors and national interests be given their ideal share.” In this kind of scenario, one might be tempted to ask are these (dishonest public servants) with fellow Tanzanians in supporting the government to develop the country or are they in with secret motive(s) fellow Tanzanians might not be aware of. Every regime, the successive regimes including the current President Samia Suluhu Hassan has been appealing and stressing that Tanzania, just like any other country globally, wants investors enmasse to come and invest in the country and tourists to visit our tourist sites. At the background, some educated and trusted public leaders paid with taxpayers’ money are frustrating investors or creating unconstitutional bureaucracies to mint extra coins, a culture that should not be allowed. In this war, the government is fully supported and should not show any mercy to such egocentric and myopic leaders, who in a way are not pro-the people, by the people and only deserve to be in jail.