THE East African Community has reaffirmed its commitment of working closely with the European Union (EU) especially in the area of pushing development agenda, for the benefit of both blocs. Speaking during a virtual meeting with the European Union Commission on Tuesday evening, EAC Secretary General Peter Mathuki expressed his anticipation to establishing the areas of cooperation between the two blocs for the next six years. “The consolidation of the Customs Union and advancing the implementation of the Common Market Protocol call for urgent attention to further propel the EAC integration agenda,” said Dr Mathuki, in the meeting which provided the platform to review what is envisaged in the EU Multiannual Indicative Programme (MIP) for Sub-Saharan Africa 2021-27. The EAC Secretary further noted the need to address the adverse impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic in the region, saying he looked forward to the cooperation with the EU in further enhancing the region’s response to Covid-19 and economic recovery, as well as the implementation of the EAC’s sixth Development Strategy priorities. In his rejoinder Head of Unit, Regional and Multi-Country Programmes for Africa, who also represented the EU in the meeting, Hans Stausboll congratulated Dr Mathuki for his appointment as the new EAC boss. The MIP is set to provide support through actions at national, multi-country, sub-regional, crossregional and continental level in Sub-Saharan Africa on the basis of three main principles: policy first, geographisation and subsidiarity. It is expected that only initiatives with a clear added value to address an issue from a regional perspective will be supported under the regional programme. Priority areas for cooperation include; human development; governance, peace and security, culture; green and climate transition and digital and science. Others are technology and innovation; sustainable growth and decent jobs, migration and forced displacement. Meanwhile, Dr Mathuki has hailed the existing cordial relations between the EAC and Russia. The Secretary General, who hosted the Russia’s Ambassador -at-large Oleg Ozerov at the Secretariat’s headquarters, welcomed the support from the Russian government geared towards enabling the community to achieve its ambitious agenda. Dr Mathuki further emphasised the need to formalise cooperation between the two parties, where EAC would identify priority areas of cooperation and called upon the Ambassador to see the possibility to support response to Covid-19 for economic recovery including testing, vaccination and other technologies, as well as pilot disinfection system at selected border posts and at the EAC Secretariat. The Russian envoy on his part informed the Secretary General that there was existing collaboration between Russian government and the EAC, with the latter attending the Africa-Russia Summit held in Sochi, Russia in 2019.