AT least 200 Tanzanians will secure employment after a partnership of two automobile service companies, Nas Tyre Services (NTS) and Germany’s Bosch. This was said during the official launch of the partnership between Dar es Salaam based NTS and one of the largest importers and distributor of tires and batteries with Bosch, renowned automotive company that operates across the globe. With the new partnership, NTS has extended its service offerings from tires and batteries distribution to more automotive products and services including distribution of spare parts and establishment of diesel car service centres. Apart from extending the business wings, the merger will also help in transfer of technology in the automobile and transport sector, as part of efforts to support the government’s on-going efforts to create a better investment climate. Ambassador of Germany to Tanzania, who attended the event, Ms Regine Hess said her government would continue encouraging Germany investors to explore investment opportunities in the country. She was in support of President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s vow to restore investors’ trust in the country by creating a favourable business climate, noting that this would help in strengthening the economy at individual and national level. “The Tanzanian President has assured that Tanzania is a good place for business, this is a great opportunity for investors including those from Germany to expand their wings here,” she said. Chief Operating Officer for NTS, Amin Lakhani said they have a long history in supplying and providing world-class products and services. “With the addition of Bosch services under our belt, Tanzanian mechanics and the youth in general will get training opportunities including specialised training outside the country to advance their skillset, in other words, through this affiliation,” Mr Lakhani said. NTS, Bosch Business Development Manager Manor Thakkar said they have a good rapport in the automotive industry and is well known for its quality, top-notch services, “hence from a business perspective, the partnership is a win-win.” NTS was established in 1994 as a tyre re-treading factory. The firm has warehouses in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mwanza and Mbeya.