MBAO Head Coach Amy Ninje has applauded the government for introducing a Physical Education combination for advanced level school’s specialisation while giving recommendations for its efficiency. Speaking to the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ yesterday, Ninje who is a qualified sports and football coach currently majoring in a Pro Football licence at Irish FA University in the United Kingdom, said the government move to introduce physical education studies for students shall help to uplift sports in the country. “The government deserves congratulations for realising a need to train students from the prior level before they specialise in different present sports. This assures us as a nation that at least we shall have enough players years to come,” he said. “In my life time experience of training footballers as I served for my academy, in a study that I conducted to determine how long it takes to achieve full performance I found that those players who had not achieved even a little football education it took them between six to seven months.” He said. Ninje recommended that the government must firstly set a new teaching syllabus as well as training enough teaching personnel for different categories of sports mentioning football, volleyball, netball and other games so as to achieve the education efficiency. “Sports lessons improve better performance in sports and games as the anatomy of a human body is compelled for sports. Therefore, the government should prepare a relevant studying guide as well as seeking for trained teachers to administer sports principles to learners,” he said. He moreover added that though team coaches would seem to be a good refuge for training football at schools but that must focus to determine if they got sports education because teaching entails conducting both theoretical and practical lessons. He said if having enough trained sports teachers would seem difficult then the government should recruit part-time trainees at such schools teaching physical education.