A total of 220 business people in Sikonge and Uyui districts in Tabora region have their food and cosmetic premises registered and granted permits by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) after meeting the legal requirements. This was unveiled here by the TBS Quality Control Officer from Dodoma Zone, Ms Zena Mushi, while briefing the media on the progress reached in registering food and cosmetic premises in the respective districts. Ms Mushi said they had concluded the first phase of the exercise in Roya and Tura wards in Uyui districts where about 100 business people were reached and granted permits. She said the response of business people in the Uyui and Sikonge districts to register food and cosmetic premises was high, indicating change of mind-set for the traders to operate according to the laws of the country. “The response of the traders and other people has been positive and even after transferring the obligations to TBS from the then Food and Drugs Regulatory Authority (TFDA),” she stressed. Ms Mushi said more officials from TBS would be dispatched to other remaining wards in the districts in order to reach more business people and register their food and cosmetic premises. She said there were many benefits of registering food and cosmetic premises, including giving confidence to consumers on the products sold by the traders that they are stored in a place that meet required standards. Furthermore, the permits have been an important requirement and condition for some financial institutions to provide loans to business people. The food and cosmetic permits granted by TBS is important document that the business people have to attach when tendering for food supply in various institutions especially schools. She noted further that TBS was continuing to work hard in order to reach all districts in the zone so that more food and cosmetic premises may be registered and traders granted permits. Ms Mushi urged business people to make sure that they get TBS registration and permits for their food and cosmetic premises including restaurants, bars, and cosmetic shops before they open up their businesses. The TBS Quality Control Officer, Sileja Lushibika encouraged business people to grab the opportunity for which TBS is offering to them to get business permits. Since when the obligation of supervising the quality of food and cosmetic was officially shifted to TBS, no business person is allowed to conduct business in food and cosmetic products in the market or premises without first getting TBS approval.