YOUNG Africans coach Juma Mwambusi has assured fans to see a new look squad when they host Biashara United at Benjamin Mkapa in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Mwambusi, whose team stamped a painful 1-1 draw with KMC of Kinondoni at the same venue in their last game, said he was fielding a wellshaped squad and urged fans to expect positive results. Mwambusi who took over technical bench helm from Burundian Cedric Kaze after parting ways with the club on March 7, this year, has been working hard to brighten the attacking force and defence since coming to power. He said he was forced to make a few adjustments at the two sections after their 1-1 draw with KMC. “We are ready for the game against Biashara United on Sunday, we have trained well and we’re keen to claim maximum points tomorrow,” he said. He said what is important for the team now is to boost the morale of players to build confidence in the team. “We are heavily indebted by our fans who long to see their team sparkle in the Premier League. We will fight tooth and nail to ensure we win this time,” he assured fans. He insisted winning the match is very crucial in the race for the league diadem as the loss will see them losing the pilot seat to Simba who are just two points inferior. He said fans should expect a tougher Yanga in all three sections; defence, middle of terrain and the forward line. Mwambusi returned to the hot seat at the Jangwani Street giants, having left the club in January citing health issues. Mwambusi had tendered his resignation letter while the team was in Zanzibar for the Mapinduzi Cup competition on January 22, and the club allowed the coach to leave for treatment. His return now is not anything new, according to the club chairman Mshindo Msola who said the management was keenly working round the clock to have a new coach in place. Mwambusi was part of the technical bench that delivered the Mapinduzi Cup for Yanga after they managed to beat rivals Simba SC in a penalty shoot-out in the final, and he at one time acted as the team’s head coach when Serbian Zlatko Krmpotic left the club.