AGRO dealers in Tanzania have complained of challenges encountered in financing cash flow shortages, with collateral value as the main stumbling block. A recent survey conducted by TAHA - the apex private sector member-based organisation and Fintrac Inc. found that the majority of agro-dealers (80 per cent), who were interviewed had problems with cash flow in their businesses. Presenting findings of the ‘2020 Agro Dealers Survey’ last week at Arusha, Mr Ndeoya Mungure noted the figures as an increase of 29 per cent, when compared with the 2019 survey. Mr Mungure mentioned other challenges as limited knowledge among farmers about the application of inputs, leading to compromised productivity and in most cases, farmers bring back complaints to the agro-dealers. There is also the question of poor quality of packaging materials resulting in loss of products. The survey indicates an increase for input loans from input supplying companies from 75 per cent in 2019 to 87 per cent, but a decrease in loans from financial institutions from 51 per cent to 32 per cent, bringing in the major challenge. “The survey also found that 44 percent of the agro-dealers had cash flow inconveniences, an increasing of eight percent from the previous survey. Majority of the agro-dealers who have cash flow inconveniences used loans from input suppliers (57 per cent), family members/friends (38 per cent), SACCOS/VICOBA (30 per cent) and other factors (21 per cent) to address their problems,” noted the researcher. Mr Mungure said that in order for agro business to be brought back to proper rails, 25 per cent of dealers in Tanzania Mainland indicated both linkages to potential customers and tax relief as the most important factors that would improve their business showing an increase by three per cent and nine per cent respectively when compared to the 2019 survey. Majority (75 per cent) of Zanzibar agro-dealers reported access to loan, as the most factor that would improve their business, being an increase by 25 per cent from the previous survey, 20 per cent of agrodealers reported training and five per cent described linkage with inputs suppliers as what is needed. Other challenges faced by agro-dealers are inadequate accuracy by research institutions in the registration of pesticides; this has resulted into supply of counterfeit products; high costs for inputs, as a result agro-dealers raise prices at the expense of farmers. Climate change was reported to be among the challenges discussed and that affects application of agro chemicals and pesticides in the course of high rainfall. Another challenge is absence of rain in certain seasons. There is still an existence of products with no labels of the expiry date; an increasing number of companies engaging into agro-inputs business in the recent decades, hence competing on customers and regulatory authorities responsible for inputs are many, and sometimes their responsibilities are overlapping. TAHA has joined hands with the government of Tanzania, development partners and the private sector in the efforts toward horticulture transformation in Tanzania.