JUST like others, leaders come and go in different way but sympathetically the loss of a hero who championed a new version economic self reliance can only be written in books of history of this country by recognising what he did. In one of his speech the late president urged Tanzanians come up in big numbers and set up zoos across this beautiful country in East Africa, this will be one many ways of conserving wildlife and preserving nature. Reports from the Bank of Tanzania show earnings from tourism have increased to $2,591.4million from $2,512.3million in 2019. Besides that, Magufuli said section 5 of the 2009 Wildlife Act allowed people to keep wild animals in zoos at areas that were conducive for their conservation and that were accessible by domestic and foreign tourists, said the statement. “There are many countries in the world, including South Africa, that are benefiting from keeping wild animals in zoos. Tens of hundreds of tourists visit the zoos,” the late president said. This indicates that animals’ farms and zoo will play a key role in strengthening the economy. At the time when the government is working very hard to build our country’s economy, as a largest bird on Earth Ostriches are capable to play a crucial role. This is possible because the flightless bird is capable to adapt different kind of weather and vegetation like domestic chickens, from South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya experts say it’s more profitable to run an Ostrich’s farm than poultry or oxen farm. If they are well kept, Ostriches have many benefits to the farmer because they have nice meat and their body parts such as feather and skins are used for different industrial products in China, Japan and Europe. In recent years because of the growth of health awareness among people, there has been high demand of Ostrichs in America and Europe. This demand has forced many beef suppliers in USA to shift into Ostrich’s meat which its demand is not expected to slowdown in any time in future. Weighing about 154 kilogrammes, Ostriches have one of healthier and nutritious meat in the avian family when compared with other members such as chickens and ducks. This is a high quality meat because it looks red but scientists say it’s a white meat, Ostrich’s meat has the lowest amount of fat materials and cholesterol compared to others from chickens and fish. In Europe and America more people are looking for Ostrich’s meat because it looks like goat’s meat but on the table it tastes like beef. Scientists say 26 per cent of every 100 grammes of Ostrich’s meat is made by materials which contain proteins, 3 grammes of fat, and 3.2 grammes of iron materials and 81 milligrammes of cholesterols while the rest contains nutritious materials. Due to its quality, reports from the USA and major European markets indicate many health conscious consumers are scrambling for inadequate supply from America, New Zealand, Australia and South Africa. The high demand has made price of a kilogramme of Ostrich’s meat between USD 12 and 30 depending on type and location where a consumer gets the supply. The report also indicates the price is also affected by market factors such as quantity of meat available in one place and country of origin. The report also indicates the price is also affected by market factors such as quantity of meat available in one place and country of origin. Just like chickens, Ostriches lay eggs, these are the largest birds which lay largest egg weighing two kilogrammes and rich in energy materials, proteins, vitamins A and E with a very little amount of fat materials. One Ostrich’s egg is capable to feed 12 people but in America, Europe and Asia rich people prefer to eat these eggs because it’s believed they are capable to build strong immunity against Alzheimer. These and other factors push the demand of Ostrich’s meat high in countries such USA, UK, France, Germany, Holland, China, Saudi Arabia, India, Pakistani, UAE and South Africa. Scientists say apart from their delicious meat, Ostriches have good skin which is used to produce different leather products such as belt and hats for American cowboys. Also Ostrich’s skins are used to produce high quality hand bags for rich women in big cities such as Dallas, London, Paris, Frankfurt, Rome, New York, Ottawa, Tokyo and Shanghai. In Europe, America and Asia Ostrich’s feathers are used as basic materials to produce high quality brushes which are used to clean delicate parts of industrial machines. In Europe Ostrich’s feathers are used to produce high quality clothes for rich people such as music super stars and super models such as Naomi Campbell from England. Japanese and Chinese furniture manufacturers have developed special taste to their customers in different parts of the World by supplying them with expensive and soft sofa set produced from Ostrich’s feathers. Most of these manufacturers depend on supply of raw materials from Ostrich’s farms in South Africa which leads in production of meat from the largest bird on Earth. Meanwhile, zoologists from different parts of the world rank Tanzania as one of few places on Earth which is rich in flora and fauna and this is proved by Swagaswa game reserves with thicket savannah forest which also provides good environment for pancake tortoises in central part of the country. Pancake tortoises are diurnal animal which are active in the daytime only, most of their activities take place during morning hours or late in the afternoon if not early evening when they will forage within their home range. These beautiful reptilians live in isolated colonies with two or more individuals sharing one rock, this is situation which always cause problem in pancake community during breeding season. This happens when neighbouring males fight for access to estrous female when the breeding season for pancake tortoise starts across Swagaswaga game reserve between January and February, to their standard these are biggest scuffle because larger male with all their energy push each other when scrambling for a chance to mate. Then these reptiles start to build nests from July to August when female digs a nest cavity for about 7.5 to 10 centimeter deep in loose, sandy soil where it will lay one egg at a time although she is capable of producing many of them for four to eight weeks before covering them with soil for nature to incubate them. Due to this habit, in general incubation period among pancake tortoise last for four to six months when chicks are hatched and start their life without receiving assistance from their parents, this makes most of young tortoise to fall victims of predators. This habit makes pancake tortoise to have one lowest multiplying level among tortoises in the world and on the other hand their slowest speed of reproducing is a problem because it does not match with habitat loss and illegal commercial exploitation. To check this problem, the government is encouraging private owned animal farms to play an important role in stabilising the population of pancake tortoise in the wild. Since the colonial period because of their beauty, pancake tortoises have been subjected to commercial exploitation but with time running out of their favour breeding in captivity are important because it may also be a reliable source to support the dwindling population in the wild. Official registered private owned farm may breed this species for export to European and Asian market under regulation set by the government and international regulator such as the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) and Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). With Kenya leading others in East Africa, from 1990s some private owned farms such as Msiwe of Mlandazi in Tanzania which have tried and managed to stock pancake tortoises, the farm started with 30 parent stock the managed to export about 104 chicks to different parts of the world and earn foreign currencies. To avoid poaching and illegal pet trade on the pancake and its body parts it’s high time for government institutions to take necessary measure to support these farms which will bring foreign currency into the country through export of chicks to Europe, Australia, Asia and Far East. This is important because pancake tortoise is classified as vulnerable on the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources or IUCN Red List and it is categorised as a species which is in a delicate situation by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora or CITES. Meanwhile different reports indicate that this species which is native to East Africa is coming under heavier pressure from humans’ economic activities, in Kenya pancake tortoises are rapidly losing their habitat because expansion of commercial farms while in Tanzania, with one of the largest population of cattle and goat in Africa the country may face challenges in maintaining these tortoises in the wild because of overgrazing. Meanwhile Honorable Magufuli who was also known as bulldozer said “the country has already a few individuals who have established zoos. I urge more people to do the same,” said the late president. In different occasions Magufuli denounced the notion that Tanzania is a poor country, he said with all natural resources that the Almighty God gave us, we are very rich and supposed to be a donor country. Out of love some citizens of this country are appealing for a special day, others are asking for a monument but it will be good if Burigi Chato national park be renamed after him. God bless Tanzania and its people. rstanslaus@yahoo.com