SOME analysts and politicians have welcomed new appointments and changes of Permanent Secretaries, made by President Samia Suluhu Hassan, describing the move as a catalyst to make ministries more effective and efficient. The pundits reacted optimistically to the appointments of the ministries’ technocrats and heads of government institutions made public on Sunday evening. President Samia, who succeeded the fallen Dr John Magufuli, has decided to reinvigorate her government as she seeks to enhance efficiency in service delivery. After last week’s mini cabinet shake-up, the Head of State followed it up with re-aligning Permanent Secretaries, with only a few left out completely. There are new faces including Mr Emmanuel Tutuba, who has been appointed new Finance and Planning Permanent Secretary, Prof Gadius Kahyarara, PS in the Prime Minister’s Office-investment and Dr Abel Makubi (Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children). Among those dropped are Aloyce Nzuki, who was in the Natural Resources and Tourism ministry, Mr Joseph Nyamuhanga, who served in the President’s Office- Regional Administration and Local Governments, Arch Elius Mwakalinga (Works and Transport) and Dorothy Mwaluko (Prime Minister’s Office -Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled). There are those who got promoted to the Permanent Secretary posts, including Ms Mary Maganga (Vice-President’s Office), Eng Leonard Masanja (Energy), and Dr Allan Kijazi (Natural Resources and Tourism). Meanwhile, Mr Doto James has been reshuffled from the Ministry of Finance and Planning to Industry and Trade and Mr Joseph Malongo shifted to the Works and Transport Ministry. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’, political analysts noted that the appointments were a wake-up call to the permanent secretaries and heads of government’s entities to get prepared for the new leadership and put up good performances. University of Dar es Salaam lecturer Dr Malima Zacharia had an opinion that usually government technocrats work as per the vision of the top leader, therefore, changing them means the President aimed at making her aides act as per her direction. “Leaving a person in the same docket for a long time may lead to laxity, but shifting them is like an alert that they can also be dropped from their posts if they underperform,” Dr Zacharia said, noting that the situation may increase efficiency in the ministries. Lecturer at the U niversity of Dodoma (U DOM), Dr Frank Tilly, perceived that the appointments show that the president still wanted to continue working with the same people she had worked with during the presidency of her predecessor Dr John Magufuli, who passed on suddenly last month. Secretary General of the CCK political party, Mr Renatus Muabhi said the President’s appointments sent a message that she was not taking a completely different path from her predecessor. “Changes aimed at sending a message to the presidential appointees that they are now under a new leader and they should get rid of ‘business as usual,” he suggested. Another academician, Dr Frank Mbunda of the University of Dar es Salaam, said appointing the same people guaranteed the continuous implementation of government policies as championed by the late Dr Magufuli. But, despite that she maintained almost the same faces, the President shifted most of them to different ministries, a move sought to bring more efficiency, Dr Mbunda asserted. According to the statement released by the Directorate of Presidential Communication on Sunday evening, the new Permanent Secretaries and their portfolios in brackets are Dr Moses Kusiluka (State House), Prof Riziki Shemdoe, (President’s Office-Regional Administration and Local Governments), Dr Laurian Ndumbaro (President’s Office- Public Service Management and Good Governance) and Ms Mary Maganga (Vice- President’s Office). The list also include; Mr Tixon Nzunda (Prime Minister’s Office -Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Prof Godius Kahyarara (Prime Minister’s Office-investment), Mr Emmanuel Tutuba, (Finance and Planning), Prof Sifuni Mchome (Constitution and Legal Affairs), Dr Faraj Mnyepe (Defence and National Service), Brig Gen Wilbert Ibuge (Foreign and East African Cooperation), Mr Christopher Kadio (Home Affairs), Doto James (Industry and Trade) and Mr Simon Msanjila (Minerals). Others are Mary Makondo (Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development), Anthony Sanga (Water), Dr Hassan Abbas (Information, Culture Arts and Sports), Dr Leonard Akwilapo, (Education, Science and Technology), Dr Abel Makubi (Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children), Mr Andrew Massawe (Agriculture), Dr Rashid Tamatamah (Livestock and Fisheries), Mr Joseph Malongo (Works and Transport), Eng Leonard Masanja (Energy), Dr Allan Kijazi (Natural Resources and Tourism), and Dr Zainabu Chaula (Communication and Information Technology). Their deputies are Jerald Mweli and Grace Maghembe (President’s Office-Regional Administration and Local Governments), Dr Francis Michael (President’s Office- Public Service Management and Good Governance) and Mr Mohammed Khamis (Vice-President’s Office). The list also include; Prof Jamal Katundu and Mr Caspary Muya (Prime Minister’s Office -Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Mr Adolf Ndunguru, Ms Amina Shaaban and Mr Khatib Kazungu (Finance and Planning), Mr Amon Mpanju (Constitution and Legal Affairs), Amb Fatma Rajab (Foreign and East African Cooperation), Mr Ramadhan Kailima (Home Affairs), Dr Hashil Abdallah (Industry and Trade) and Mr Simon Msanjila (Minerals). Others are Nicholas Mkapa (Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development), Nadhifa Kemikamba (Water), Dr Ali Possi (Information, Culture and Sports), Prof James Mdoe and Carolyne Nombo (Education, Science and Technology), Dr John Jingu (Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children), Prof Siza Tumbo (Agriculture), Prof Elisante Laizer (Livestock and Fisheries), Gabriel Migire (Works and Transport), Mr Kheri Mahimbali (Energy), Mr Ludovick Nduhiye (Natural Resources and Tourism), and Dr Jim Yonazi (Communication and Information Technology). The president has also appointed heads of key government entities, with the appointment of new Director General of the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) revoked within 12 hours of being appointed. Initially, the statement said the president had appointed Mr Thobias Richard to replace Dr James Mataragio, but it was revealed yesterday morning that the former’s appointment had been annulled, with Dr Mataragio reinstated. Other appointed heads of public institutions are Mr Gerson Msigwa (Director of Tanzania Information Services and Chief Government Spokesperson), Dr Aifello Sichwale (Chief Medical Officer), Mr Alphayo Kidata (Commissioner General- TRA), Mr Gerald Kusaya Musabila (Commissioner General- Drug Control and Enforcement Authority), Dr Jabir Kuwe (Director General-TCRA), Masha Mshomba(Director General- NSSF), Mr Erick Hamis (Director General-TPA) and Mr Kaimu Mkeyenge (Director General-TASAC).