THE Contractors Registration Board (CRB) has registered 907 new contractors for the year 2020, taking the number up to 11,749 contractors in its database. This was revealed over the weekend in Mbeya by CRB Registrar Eng Rhoben Nkori, when speaking during a two day consultative meeting with 300 contractors of Southern Zone. Apart from that, the board managed to conduct six courses and register 3,179 projects worth 3.8 tri/-, which were implemented all over the country by local and foreign companies. He said for the year 2020, CRB also inspected 3,364 projects and 2,430 which is about 72 per cent were approved while 934 projects were found with different problems including safety irregularities. Eng Nkori said during project inspection, they found some contractors who implement projects that are not of their class and some projects were not registered with the board. He said CRB has continued to strengthen (Contractors Assistance Fund- CAF) to help them to get bid security and advance payment. According to Eng Nkori, in 2020, CRB managed to do consultation with CRDB bank and the bank agreed to provide bid securities to all local contractors regardless of their classes. Nkori said CRB also made it possible the increment of contractors guarantee from 50m/- up to 100m/-, the amount he said was still very low and there was a need for further increase. Nkori said the contractors’ consultative meeting is of great importance because the board meets clients, policy makers and different stakeholders where they exchanges ideas and expertise for the betterment of the profession. He mentioned some resolution of the meeting include a call to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to educate contractors about tax issues and on how they can pay smoothly. Nkori said contractors also called on clients to pay them on time and if they delay they must pay interest which is according to Public Procurement Laws. He further said that they have agreed to shun a way corruption and in a case where they are influenced by clients or government officials, they must report to the relevant authorities. According to Eng Nkori, other contractors’ consultative meetings will be held in Arusha, Dar es Salaam and Mwanza.