VODACOM Tanzania has launched a new shop in Dodoma, the initiative that will increase usage of the available communication resources to adapt to economic digitisation. Speaking at the launch of the new Vodacom facility here over the weekend, the Deputy Minister for Communications and Information Technology Engineer Andrea Kundo said that communication was a key sector for the country’s economic development and the availability of communication services closer to customers would increase the economy of the indigenous people. “Communication sector plays a key role in economic development. I take this opportunity to commend Vodacom Tanzania for their decision to launch this shop closer to their customers as now they will be able to get all their telecommunication needs in one place. “The world is now on economic digitization and Tanzania is also catching up on the same. It is our responsibility to use the available communication resources to adapt to economic digitization and hence continue growing our country’s economy” he added. Mr Kundo said Vodacom’s new service of Tech Zone has come at the right time and hence called for Dodoma residents to come and use the opportunity. “Services like these ones are not available to the whole country. Dodoma residents have this opportunity brought closer to you by Vodacom,” he noted. He added that the National Policy of 2016 on ICT calls for the government to make availability of good communication to all Tanzanians. Vodacom’s Corporate Affairs Director, Rosalynn Mworia told the minister that the facility was one of the few shops which will be receiving cheque from post-paid customers. “We know that Dodoma is the capital city, hence we decided to direct this shop to receive cheque as we know that the government mainly pays through cheques,” she said. Seconding on that, Vodacom’s Director of Business Unit Ms Linda Riwa said that the company understands the importance of investing on infrastructure’s development and thus it would continue doing it to give customers the best digital services.