THE Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako has called upon public leaders to improve their skills and knowledge, which is vital for a high performing public service. Speaking at a graduation ceremony for Uongozi Institute students on executive leadership programmes in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, she said public leaders should be catalysts for positive changes in the public service, instead of becoming sources of conflicts in their areas of work. “Unfortunately, some of the conflicts are fueled by the leaders themselves. The leaders themselves become part of the conflict,” said Prof Ndalichako, who represented Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa at the graduation ceremony. The graduation ceremony was organised by Uongozi Institute and Aalto University Executive Education of Finland for graduates of Postgraduate Diploma and Certificate in Leadership. “I believe you will be catalysts for positive change and reforms that will boost productivity in the public service,” she told the graduates, who involved senior government and private sector leaders. The Minister told the graduates that they should be responsible in solving economic and social challenges in their areas of work, and equally improving efficiency in the public sector and governmental institutions. “Be cautious getting into inflated ego, which will most often corrupt your behavior. You have to let go off your ego and work with integrity,” she said. However, Prof Ndalichako challenged the graduates to show the value for money of investing in their education programme, noting that the government was committed to building their capacity but would be keen to see positive results in their performance. “Therefore you should go and be catalysts for change so that the government would be encouraged to pay for other leaders, who want to undertake similar training programmes,” she said. Earlier, the Deputy Minister, Presidents Office (Public Service Management), Deogratius Ndejembi said the graduating leaders were expected to improve productivity and boost efficiency in service delivery by the government. He said the graduates were not expected to be fueling conflicts in their work areas or abuse their entrusted power for private gain. “I don’t expect you become part of conflicts where you work...abuse of entrusted powers should be a thing of the past,” he said. A total of 110 students graduated for Postgraduate Diploma and Certificate in Leadership run by Uongozi Institute and Aalto University Executive Education of Finland.