THE newly appointed Director of Tanzania Information Services, Mr Gerson Msigwa has pledged to safeguard journalists’ welfare in efforts to promote the sector, which is crucial in pushing forward the country’s development agenda. Mr Msigwa who doubles as Chief Government Spokesperson reminded scribes to always adhere to laws and regulations that govern the industry so that there could be no hitches in fulfilling their duties. Mr Msigwa gave the assurance during an office handover event with his predecessor, Dr Hassan Abbasi, who remains as the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports. Mr Msigwa was appointed the new Director of Tanzania Information Services and Chief Government Spokesman by President Samia Suluhu Hassan on April 5, this year. Mr Msigwa asked journalists to protect national interests while delivering their duties, telling them that their pens should be used to promote the existing peace and tranquility. “Let’s use the media for promoting peace and unity, we should work together for our nation by safeguarding our national values and interests. I will be saddened to see journalists being used as tools of destroying peace,” he noted. Mr Msigwa further asked journalists to make sure national interests are given top priority for the mutual development of the country. “Our operations must be in line with given rules, laws, regulations, procedures and directives,” he said. He added that his office will act tough against perpetrators of violence against journalists in the country. Likewise, Mr Msigwa said journalists who will dare to violate laws of the land will not be spared. However, the new director promised to do everything in his capacity to ensure the media industry prospers, saying that inclusive strategies will be set for discussion with all stakeholders for a better future. Mr Msigwa, a believer of team work leadership, said both journalists and the department needs each other for the development of the industry. Mr Msigwa, who served as the Director of the Presidential Communications under the late President John Pombe Magufuli, thanked President Samia for appointing him to the new post, saying he will work hard to maintain the Head of State’s trust on him. On his part, Dr Abbasi thanked the media for according him support during the four years and eight months that he served as Director of Tanzania Information Services and Chief Government Spokesperson. “I thank you for the support you gave me in the past four years and eight months. I am asking you to give the same support to Mr Msigwa,” he said.