DEPUTY Ministry for Agriculture, Hussein Bashe had directed the Cooperative Joint Enterprise Limited (TCJE) to consider bulk procurement for agricultural inputs, through cooperatives unions to give farmers the best prices. He gave the directive here yesterday, when officiating at third TCJE general meeting which he said farmers need assurance of the best prices of the agricultural inputs for increased productivity. The Deputy Minister said farmers’ assurance of agricultural inputs is key to improving their production. He also said that TCJE must conduct survey from tobacco farmers, to know their demands including fertilizers and the pricing list. “The programme must be in place but it is important to take the farmers’ views on their needs of agricultural inputs from their respective cooperatives unions and societies, so that they you meet their demands,” said Mr Bashe “TCJE must ensure in 2021 farming season, all farmers’ needs especially on agricultural inputs are met on time … fertilizer distribution must go direct to farmers through their cooperatives unions and societies,” he insisted. Bashe said agricultural sector remains a back born of the national economy as it contributes between 60 and 75 per cent of employment opportunities. Deputy Minister said contribution of tobacco revenue has dropped from 300 million US dollar to 146 million US dollars, which is an indication of decline in productivity as well as the manufacturing of end products. He expressed the government commitment to ensure they support tobacco farming as it is well stipulated in the 2020-2025 election manifesto. He also said the government will continue to throw more weight to strengthen cooperatives unions and societies. To ensure cooperatives are operational according to rules, laws and guidelines, he directed Registrar of Cooperatives to complete and submit financial audit report of some unions and societies, which are implicated in embezzlements for proper action. On his part Registrar of Cooperatives and Chief Executive of the Tanzania Cooperatives Development Commission (TCDC), Dr Benson Ndiege said they have started engaging graduates from cooperatives colleges for increased professionalism in managing and running the unions and societies. He said the move is aimed at giving the graduates, who will be working on internship basis opportunity to harness their skills and knowledge to get on job training experience as well giving rooms for officials of the union and societies the best operational modals according to the professional guidance.