A HUSBAND, Zamir Rahimu, who was sentenced to death by hanging for murder, has managed to get out of prison after the Court of Appeal invalidated the damning evidence of his wife, Rehema Mustafa, over killing of her son, Abdallahman Khamis. Justices Shaban Lila, Mwanaisha Kwariko and Ignas Kitusi ruled in favour of Rahimu, the appellant, after allowing his appeal he lodged against findings of the High Court on the matter. They found that the High Court, before receiving the evidence of the wife against her husband could not comply with the law. The justices recalled that when a wife or husband is called by the prosecution to give evidence against each other, the trial court has to be guided by the provision of section 130 of the Law of the Evidence Act when receiving testimony of either of the two. Subsection (1) of the provision reads, “Where a person charged with an offence is the husband or the wife of another person, such last named person shall be a competent but not a compellable witness on behalf of the prosecution.” It also reads, “Provided that the wife or husband shall be a competent and compellable witness for the prosecution in the following cases only: (a) in any case where the person charged is charged with an offence under Chapter XV of the Penal Code or against section 164 of the Penal Code. “(b) in any case where the person charged is charged m respect of an act or omission affecting the person or property of the wife or husband of such person or the children or either of them.” Sub-section (2) of the section states that, “Where a person whom the court has reason to believe is the husband or wife of a person charged with an offence is called as a witness for the prosecution, the court shall, except in the cases specified in the proviso to subsection (1).... “....... ensure that such person is before giving evidence made aware of the provisions of subsection (1) and the evidence of such person shall not be admissible unless the court has recorded in the proceedings that this subsection has been complied with.” When determining the appeal in question, the justices noted that it was not disputed that the appellant and Rehema were husband and wife and the law, notably, section 130 of the Act was clear that a person is a competent but not compellable witness in a case involving his or her spouse. They pointed out that, “We are of the considered view that, before (Rehema) gave evidence against the appellant, who was her husband, the trial court ought to have addressed her in terms of the cited provision of law for her to decide whether she was ready to give such evidence.” According to the justices, since the trial court did not comply with the mandatory provision of law, the evidence of Rehema becomes incompetent and they proceeded to expunge the same from the record, thus, finding the remaining evidence of prosecution witnesses’ insufficiency to sustain conviction. “We find that the prosecution evidence is not sufficient to prove the charge against the appellant beyond reasonable doubt. Consequently, we find the appeal meritorious and allow it. In that regard, we order the appellant’s release from prison unless otherwise lawfully held,” the justices declared. The prosecution evidence revealed that the deceased who was aged 18 months at the material time, was a biological child of Rehema Mustafa and Khamis Clemens. The two had divorced and Rehema was re-married to the appellant at the material time. Rehema and the appellant had some misunderstandings, some of which involved Clemens, but they had been reconciled. It was revealed further that in the morning hours of December 2, 2014, Rehema went to a shop, leaving behind the deceased in the care of the appellant. On her return from the shop, she found the appellant around but she alleged that he was restless. Upon inquiry about the baby, the appellant said it was sleeping inside, so Rehema proceeded with domestic activities and prepared food for the appellant who unusually ate very little. Thereafter, Rehema went to wake-up the baby for food but she found it unresponsive. When she inquired from the appellant, he did not give satisfactory answers, after which she raised the alarm, to which the neighbours responded, and upon examination of the baby, they found him dead. Together with the appellant and other people, Rehema took the baby to his father’s place. When they reached there, Clamens examined the baby and found the baby’s neck rotating. They interrogated the appellant about that state but he pleaded ignorance. Since the appellant was suspected to be responsible with the death of the deceased, he was arrested and taken to police station where upon interrogation, he denied the allegations.