ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has called on the newly-appointed commanders of the Isles Special Forces to undertake workable reforms within the forces, including restoring discipline. Dr Mwinyi issued the directive after swearing in the new military appointees at the State House on Sunday. “In any military forces, discipline is a major tool in all its operations, without which, the army organisation will be weak. I decided to appoint you so that you help share your experience to build reputable forces,” he said. Most of the newly appointed are army officers from the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) as the president seeks to improve the Isles forces, especially special units. President Mwinyi said he opted for the TPDF officers as he believes they can bring reforms to Zanzibar Special Forces, particularly restoring financial discipline, which the president said was lacking. Dr Mwinyi thanked Chief of Defence Forces General Venance Mabeyo and the Inspector General of Police Simon Siro for approving their officers appointed to join Zanzibar Special Forces. Those sworn-in are Colonel Azana Hassan Msingiri, the Commanding Officer of Special Forces for AntiSmuggling Unit (KMKM), Colonel Makame Abdallah Daima as the Chief of Jeshi la Kujenga Uchumi (JKU) and Colonel Rashid Mzee Abdallah as the Commissioner for Fire and Rescue. Others are Lieutenant Colonel Khamis Bakari Khamis as Commissioner for Prisons, Lieutenant Colonel Burhani Zubeir Nassoro as Executive Director of the Drug Coordination and Control Commission and ACP Ahmed Hamis Makarani as Director General of the Zanzibar Anti-Corruption and Economic Crime Authority (ZAECA). Dr Mwinyi urged the new commanders to also focus on management of available resources at the forces and the government institutions, insisting that embezzlement, theft of public funds and other dubious deals must stop. He said that dishonest accountants in the special forces were paying salaries to ‘ghost workers’ and worse still, some retired officers are being paid allowances and salaries. “This must stop…the government has no intention of suppressing anybody’s rights, but we cannot allow abuse of public offices to continue,” Dr Mwinyi warned. He added that all the collection generated from the forces income activities like shops were not properly recorded. Dr Mwinyi said that in times of peace and stability, the function of the forces is to train and produce different commodities. President Mwinyi urged the forces to reduce heavy reliance on the government funds and instead they should produce including farms to make enough money and also provide dividends to the government as these forces have the opportunity to generate wealth. He challenged them that within the forces there are factories, security companies, farms, tourist destinations as well as docks that can be used to serve both local and foreign ships. “I am fully committed to ensuring discipline in public offices and institutions is restored. I dissolved the People’s Bank of Zanzibar board a few months’ ago for the same reasons,” he said. President Mwinyi also dissolved the Zanzibar Social Security Funds (ZSSF) board due to unverified use of 99.7m/- spent between January and March, this year. The swearing-in ceremony held at the State House in Zanzibar was attended by various leaders including First Vice-President Othman Masoud, Speaker of the House of Representatives Zubeir Ali Maulid, Chief Justice of Zanzibar Othman Makungu, Heads of Defence and Security Forces, religious leaders, and family members of the appointees.