TANZANIANS have been advised to be proud of their natural resources, including Mount Kilimanjaro, while at the same time, protecting them due to the fact that they are the best sources of income and identity of the Tanzanian nation worldwide. That advice was given by Mathieu, one of the players and fans of the Cambounet team from the small village of Cambounet-Sur-le-Sur in France, who was on a victory tour to celebrate the big victory the team from the village won in a football tournament held in their home country. “We have toured Kilimanjaro National Park (Kinapa) and some of the national parks you have. You must have pride and be proud of these great treasures you have. Please, take care of them,” he advised. Regarding their presence in Tanzania and the trophy they won, Mathieu said the visit was to fulfill their commitment they made which was to make a victory tour with the cup by visiting all five continents in the world as a testimony of their historic victory. “The area we come from which is Cambounet-Surle- Sur is very small. It has a population of less than 1,000, but we were able to beat the big teams and win this trophy. That’s why we organised this tour to visit the five continents around the world with the cup so that the world can see something that a small village like Cambounet-Sur-le-Sur could do,” he said. He noted that on the African side of their programme, they chose Tanzania due to the fact that it did host one of the most significant features in the world in Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa. “We are happy we arrived in Tanzania safely with the trophy we won in 2019 in the historic victory. We climbed Mount Kilimanjaro as we had planned and finally reached at Uhuru Peak, the highest point in Africa with our historic trophy. This is another history we have made.” Mathieu explained that he and his colleagues, Axelle, Pierre Trawtoul and Lola Beck, who embarked on the tour together, said apart from being an intercontinental victory tour, the journey was also meant to put spotlights on charity in each trip they made. “That’s why when in Tanzania we visited the two primary schools of Neville and Mbokomu, in Moshi Rural, which have been supported in renovation processes by a Frenchbased nongovernmental organisation, Education Pour Le Kilimanjaro, and roof renovations implemented by another French team, Human’isa, whereby we donated educational and sports equipment to each school,” he said. He noted that the team under the banner, Let’s Go Cambou Association, left their area of stay, a small village South of France, on an intercontinental victory tour on December 2019 by travelling to Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, whereby they distributed gifts and hot meals for children of the Favelas. “We also visited other areas before coming to Tanzania, but of all the trips so far, the expedition to Kilimanjaro was even more interesting because we waited anxiously for this trip for the whole past year,” he added. “We have planned to introduce a sistership between our home village and the areas we are visiting which will include Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, Mbokomu, would make a good partnership and this is because of the warm reception we received from teachers and pupils of these two schools of which we appreciate a lot,” he said. Speaking during the team’s visit, the headmistress of Neville Primary School Agnes Mchau thanked the visitors for their donations to the schools which she said would motivate pupils to do better in their educational programmes as well as in sports. Ms Mchau’s counterpart at Mbokomu Primary School Esther Meda said they had learned a lot from the visitors especially in celebrating their victory and their volunteering for charity. Tanzanians told