THE Northern Zone regions of Tanga, Arusha, Manyara and Kilimanjaro have hatched an initiative to use performing arts and other cultural activities to boost tourism. That was among the initiatives proposed to boost cultural activities as hatched by cultural officials here. “These will also include the starting of Children Concerts to recruit young talents,” stated Arusha’s Cultural Officer Elizabeth Ncheye. She was speaking at the threshold of the Northern Zone’s Arts Development meeting organised by the National Arts Council (BASATA) for cultural officials from Tanga, Arusha, Manyara and Kilimanjaro regions. It was the maiden session for similar initiatives to be held countrywide. The Guest of Honour during the event was the Coordinator of Cultural and Sports Programme in the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government Leonard Thadeo who directed Regional Cultural officers to revive all forms of arts and cultural activities in their respective prefectures. “Cultural officials should not just rest on laurels, waiting to issue or revoke licences but must get out of their offices and seek artists to see how they can be assisted,” stated Thadeo, adding that mutual cooperation between the two parties will help iron out differences. Around 30 delegates attended the meeting, among them cultural officers from the four Northern Zone regions, and all used the occasion to lay new ground for future cultural development. The supervisor of Cultural Development in the Northern Zone Mrisho Mrisho said after the session, their team has come up with a master plan for executing activities in the zone, including live concerts, trademark initiatives, loyalty fees and assistance in marketing their works. The BASATA Zonal Arts Coordinator, Flora Mgonja said Arts and Culture can propel the tourism sector with economical potential and there is the need now to start recruiting talents right from tender ages and the sector made official. Masanja Pius is an arts trainer and artist from Arusha who said they have managed to table their challenges and hopefully steps will be taken especially in regards to marketing, promotion and sales.