HERI ya mwaka mpya wapendwa, I hope you are ready to tackle this year, after the hectic time we suffered last year, what with Corona and all that which accompanied it…kwa wengi mwaka ulikua nuksi sana ule. I know that many businesses suffered drastically due to the virus, because although the country desisted from any form of lockdowns, the impact was still there, mambo kadha wa kadha yaliharibika. We should really thank God for enabling us to see this year, because there are many who did not make it, wengi walitangulia mbele za haki, so we should not think that we are too special, ni neema tu. And then last week came Christmas, na kama kawaida yetu we had fun, some of us spent money like new millionaires, while others drank themselves silly, hao ndio tunawasubiri waje kutukopa hela muda sio mrefu, subirini tu, they forgot that January has 50 days. But apart from all these things, as we shouted and screamed at the top of our voices to welcome 2021, I think we should ask ourselves, is it really a new year or another year? Swali dogo tu, ni mwaka mpya kweli ama ni mwaka mwengine? Because if it is a new year, then it means that we accomplished something last year, and we are waiting to usher in new accomplishments this year, which will make a difference between mwaka mpya na mwaka mwengine. Anyway, I thought I should just try and put things straight before I carry on, because after all, the purpose of this page is to try and put things straight, so that by the end of the day msiseme hamkuambiwa. Juzi juzi I boarded a bus to town just before the hullaballoo of celebrating new year, and I felt like alighting before reaching my destination, kwa sababu kuna mtu alinikera sana, and it is unfortunate that these people are all over. You see, I like to read a book when I sit in a bus, because I still believe that reading is still the best way of eradicating stupidity, although I know kuna watu ambao hawaamini hivyo, we can judge them by their level of intelligence. This fellow from the shores of Lake Victoria was sitting right behind me, and he made a ruckus all in the name of making phone calls, yaani alikua ni kero kupita maelezo. Most of us thank God for the far we have come in the name of technology, which in this case includes mobile phones, sasa hivi mawasiliano yamerahisishwa sana. But it is unfortunate that there are some people who really don’t know the proper use of a mobile phone, yaani hawana habari kabisa namna ya matumizi ya simu. This fellow thought that he should use the time he spends in the bus to call his friends and relatives, which is okay, hatuwezi kumpangia mtu muda wake, but the problem is, he was screaming as if he was talking to someone who is half deaf, kelele mtindo mmoja. It reached a point when the whole bus went silent and listened to him as he practically picked a fight with one of his girlfriends, and to make matters worse, he thought it was a good idea to put loudspeaker on his phone. People, when they made the phone, they put the microphone at the bottom of the phone, so that it will be easy to transfer your voice to the other side, and they calculated the distance between your mouth and the microphone, ni vitu ambavyo ni simpo sana kuelewa. But it is funny to see someone, including the noisemaker in the bus, talking to the phone as if he was using a radio call, kusema ukweli ushamba mwengine hata ukienda shule sidhani kama utaisha. When I thought that I had had enough of the chaos from this fellow, I faced him as he was about to place another call, and told him in a polite manner that he was disturbing the peace in the bus, niliamua kumtolea uvivu kwa kweli, nilikua nishachoka. Fortunately, kumbe most people were irritated by this fellow, but they were not courageous enough to tell him, so nilivyompa makavu, I received a lot of support from my fellow passengers. That, unfortunately, was just one scenario among many which happen every day in our public transport, yaani kuna watu wanadhani wakiwa ndani ya basi ndio muda mzuri wa kupiga simu. Calling and receiving calls in a public transport is not bad, naomba mnielewe, it is not bad at all, but the manufacturers of the phone made it in such a way that even if you talk in a low voice, the other person on the other end can hear you, atakusikia vizuri tu. You find someone just because he or she was lucky to get a seat, they decide to become a nuisance as they ‘talk’ on the phone, yaani ni fujo mwanzo mwisho! If you know that you can never use a low tone to talk on the phone, then for crying out loud, wait until you alight from the bus before calling someone, kwa kweli mnasumbua. And if it happens that you are sitting next to such a person, it becomes difficult for you to talk on your phone in case someone calls you, kwa sababu hamtasikilizana kabisa! Kwani mliambiwa kupiga kelele ndio kuelewana? Kama nilivyosema, if you know that talking in a low tone is a challenge to you, then select a time when you are alone and in a good environment to make your calls, sio kusumbua watu na simu zako. You find someone talking on the phone as if he is reporting a crime on a radio call, in a very loud voice, and the worst thing is, unakuta muda wote anaongea pumba tu. Sometimes after a long day you want to sit quietly in a bus as you head home and try to reflect, sio kupigiwa kelele na mtu ambae hajui matumizi ya simu, and the worse thing is, wengine wanafikiri ni sifa. Anyway, Happy New Year!