Maisha Magic Bongo one of the famous-most channel on DStv has announced the launch of two local series, Pazia and Jua Kali on DStv Channel 160. Pazia is set to be the much-anticipated dramatic serving produced by Samwel Isike, one of the youngest Producers in the industry who was also the producer of the much-loved drama series on the channel, Sarafu. The show started on 4th January 2021 is aired Monday to Wednesday at 7.30pm and promises to deliver slice-of-life encounters that will prove to be relatable to most as well as tear jerking moments. The series boasts a riveting storyline that focuses on themes of marriage, unity and tireless tenacity of a child who is in a struggle to unite her parents whilst rediscovering herself. Look out for familiar faces such as Jacqueline Wolper who plays the character of Miriam Lewa as well as Hisani Muya who plays the role of Henry Lewa Leah Mwendamseke, Producer of Kapuni and Multi-award winner was announced as the producer of Jua Kali which is set to premier on 6 January 2021 at 9.30pm. This equally exciting new drama series is set to keep audience glued to their seats every Wednesday to Friday as we are introduced to Professor Bili (Rainfred Masako), who proves to have a black belt in shrewd tactics. The show is an epic demonstration of how malicious intent can turn even the most benevolent down the rabbit hole. MultiChoice Tanzania Head of Marketing Ronald Shelukindo also announced that there is a good mix of industry veterans as well as up and coming cast in this brand-new show as well as surprise faces. Make it a date with your family and Maisha Magic Bongo to witness the drama unfold as love and money overshadowed by greed take over in this epic showcase every Wednesday to Friday in the New Year. "As a platform, we align with the consistent ask from our viewers in Tanzania to launch new and exciting shows that resonate with culture and audience from language to experience,” said Ronald. He also concluded that he is proud to be working alongside Tanzania’s talent and producers who work extra hard to produce amazing shows. Speaking about the new shows, Ronald stated that through Multichoice, the channel has made extensive investments in the development of original programming.  He also mentioned that since the channel launch-5 years ago, hundreds of Tanzanian producers have worked with Maisha Magic Bongo, clocking over a thousand hours with locally produced shows. “We are excited to see the development of the local television industry as well as the great stories and lives that are positively impacted in the process” said Ronald. About Pazia The institution of marriage is a covenant ordained by God, to bring together and two loving souls to become one. Marriage brings unity and happiness to those who indulge in it. What about when the institution of marriage is abused? PAZIA pursues the effort of one child who refused to allow her parents to break up and fought tirelessly to bring back the sanctity of marriage whilst rediscovering herself in this new order About Jua Kali In most societies, life is a cocktail of money, power, greed, survival and betrayal infused with love which always conquers all. Professor Bili is a cunning man who uses people to do dirty his work. His enlists Thomas; one of is bright student who is also well accepted by society to open an NGO in disguise of helping orphans and people with disabilities. The two run the organization very well until Michael (Professor Billi’s son) whom he bore with a village girl whilst in form three and whom he later refused to take responsibility of, is employed by the very same NGO. Thomas soon realizes that he is being used as a pawn to enrich the professor and decides to avenge by attacking the Professor’s family and falling in love his adopted daughter. The family drama unfolds as love, money and greed takes over in this epic season of Jua Kali.