THE High Court’s Commercial Division has ordered three foreign companies to pay about 500m/- to Kahama Oils Mills Limited for breach of contract on the shipment of goods from China for execution of tender for water supply in Geita Region. Judge Stephen Magoiga ruled against SGS Societe Generale De Surveillance SA, SGS-CSTC Standards Technical Services Company Limited -Tianjin, China and SGS Tanzania Superintendence Company Limited, as defendants, after allowing the suit lodged by Kahama Oil Mills Limited, the plaintiff. “Having considered the evidence on record and what transpired and the whole conduct of the defendants in the way they handled the dispute…, it cannot be other than exhibition of negligence on their part,” he ruled. The judge pointed out that had the defendants been careful enough, they could have sought the directions of TBS before handling the goods and also failure to put seals, after inspection was done, was no other than exposing the plaintiff at risk at their expense. According to him, the kind of goods for execution of the tender needed special testing and handling to avoid the risk of staffing a wrong package. “All considered and taken on board is the humble opinion of this court that the defendants exhibited a high degree of negligence and their defence that the goods had no specification is denied and I hold them negligent in the manner they conducted themselves to the detriment of the plaintiff,” he said. The judge also granted the prayer for payments of special damages of 417,557,349/- after the plaintiff had produced exhibits in proof of the claim. He said the defendant's argument that this limb of claimed was not proved was not true. Judge Magoinga also ordered the defendants to pay the plaintiff general damages of 50m/- for breach of duty of care and causing a lot of anxiety and disturbance to him in taking up the matter, considering he was greatly inconvenienced and taking into account the consignment was for business. “The plaintiff as well will be entitled to 12 per cent court's interest on the amount granted from the date of this judgment until payment in full,” the judge ruled. On February 22, 2017 the plaintiff ordered PVC Resin SG5 and PVC Resin SG8 packed in containers with the gross weight of 125,500kg from China. He intended to execute the project for supply of high pressure pipes and fittings to Geita Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority won after a successful tender. The plaintiff stipulated to the supplier the safeguards of being supplied with the goods with pre-export verification of conformity (PVoC) to be done by SGS-CSTC Standards Technical Services Company Limited -Tianjin, China as a condition precedent for the delivery of the goods. In that arrangement, such Chinese company did as agreed and a certificate was issued accordingly. The plaintiff believing the goods are to the standard required paid all necessary taxes and transported the goods to his own factory in Kahama for production of high pressure pipes and fittings. To his dismay, when the production started the plaintiff discovered that the goods supplied with PVoC/COC certificate cover issued by the defendants were useless, resulting in the blocking and jamming of the plaintiff production machinery, thereby exposing him to a massive financial loss.