WHEN I was growing up back in the days, the word discipline was evident even in the most remote parts of the country, kila kona watu walikua na heshima sana. In those days when growing up, raising a child was considered the responsibility of the whole community, it was not left on individual parents, yaani wewe ulikua mtoto wa jamii. And because the community took the responsibility of raising us, I can assure you it was unheard of to find a wayward child, kusema ukweli ilikua ngumu sana kupata mwana mpotevu. Parents knew that even if they were not around, the community was there to see their children through, and disciplining a neighbor’s child was a common occurrence. Those were the days when talking back to your parent, especially your mother, could earn you a straight ticket to the hospital, ungechezea kichapo sio cha dunia hii. You see, those days life was not that complicated, you were born, raised and educated by the community, get a job, start your own family, get old and finally die, yale maisha yalikua simpo sana yaani. But as years progressed, life as we knew it took a drastic turn, that is why nowadays a child beating his parents is not a big deal, watu wanaona ni kitu cha kawaida sana. I know someone might be bored stiff because I am talking a lot about the good old days, but let me assure you, it was a generation filled with respect and honesty, nawaambia ukweli kabisa, kama huamini basi tena. That is why I really get pissed off when I see the generation that we have now, and feel sad seeing it heading to the dogs, and nobody cares about it, watu wanachukulia kawaida tu. And then I realized that the modern day parent, who is left with the responsibility of raising a modern day child, is faced with modern day problems, ambayo mengi mnayajua. Nowadays if you discipline your neighbor’s child because of something, then you are likely to face the wrath of the parent, yaani hapo umenunua ugomvi. I have a neighbor, a young girl with a five year old son, and just the other day I met her outside her house and I greeted her….. “Wewe mbwa hujambo?” She did not believe what she heard, and she looked at me as if she was sad because I was about to face my maker without my knowledge, and with a serious face told me to repeat what I had just said, hakuamini nimemuita mbwa. You see, that girl lives just behind my house, and it is unfortunate that my bedroom window is facing the front of her house, which gave me all the justification of calling her a dog, msinihukumu, naomba mnivumilie kwanza. To say the truth, I am fond of the boy, her son, because with her young age I think the boy is really bright, kijana ana akili sana, but the mother, believe me, is a problem. This woman, the moment she opens her mouth, you will realize that she has the mentality of a truck driver, because she has a foul mouth that can make a veteran truck driver green with envy…… dada ana matusi hatari. What prompted me to call her a dog was the fact that she always refers to her son as a dog, and believe me that is the softest insult she hurls at the boy, kwa sababu yule mtoto wa kike ana matusi balaa! It was becoming normal for her to call the child a dog…. “Wewe mbwa njoo hapa….wewe mbwa nitakupiga……wewe mbwa amka…” To her that was a normal thing, that is why when I called her a dog she reacted in a negative way, and she was ready to unleash her vocabulary of insults on my poor self. When she told me to repeat what I had called her, I went ahead and repeated my greeting, wewe mbwa hujambo? Before she could start her insults, I told her in a very calm manner that if her son was a dog, then there was no way she could be a human being, because only a dog gives birth to a dog, haijawahi kutokea binadamu akamzaa mbwa, sijasikia sehemu yoyote kwa kweli. Luckily other neighbors were around, and they agreed with me that because she usually calls her son a dog, then indeed it simply means that she was also a dog, it was as simple as that. You see, they say that a child’s behavior in most cases reflects the upbringing they receive from their parents, na cha ajabu this same woman would beat her son half to death if she heard him insulting someone with the same insults she hurls at her son. Mtoto umleavyo ndivyo ukuavyo, that is why we find children nowadays who can insult with ease like a veteran twilight girl, simply because they heard it from their elders. Kulea ni kazi jamani, and sometimes you are left to wonder if some women were forced to have children, because the way they raise them leaves a lot to be desired. Hivi wewe ukimtukana mtoto unatarajia nini? Do you think they just listen to you and let it go? Watoto wanajifunza mengi sana, so if you raise your child with insults, it means that the child is likely to use the same insults on someone else, if not you, kwa sababu wanajua hayo unayowaambia ni matusi. It is unfortunate but nowadays in most of our African setting parents have no remorse whatsoever in calling their children funny names, and then they expect teachers in schools to rectify their mistakes. Kama hukuwa tayari kuzaa ungeacha, or if you think that you are not ready to be a parent then for crying out loud, you are supposed to wait, haya sio mambo ya kuiga. “Sura mbaya kama babako….” This is the insult the poor boy used to receive from her mother, and then you expect that child to respect you, ni kitu ambacho hakiwezekani. That is why we are raising a generation of rebellious kids because their parents did not play their role well, and we eventually blame the society. You should know that the society begins with you, sio kwa mjumbe, and raising a child with manners means that as a parent you must have manners too, kama huwezi acha!