USUALLY when money enters any relationship there is always a danger to spoiling the relationship. To understand it better let me share an interesting story. There were two friends with assumed names as Mr. X and Mr. Y, whose association was a living example of “best friendship” ever. Since childhood they both stayed in the same township, studied in the same school, as well as college, and now out working to earn a living. Mr. X chose to be an entrepreneur, while Mr. Y joined a multinational company and both continued to stay in the same city. Despite their working environment being different from the other, many of their interests were quite similar in nature. Their evening hours were usually spent at the Tennis Court and there was hardly any day when both these friends never met. Each person was an inspiration to the other, because when in need the other party was always there to support. On this you must have heard the famous quote stating: “a friend in need is a friend indeed”. Thus each was an equal party, not only to share the joy & happy moments of the other, but even the grief, as well as sorrow, and were equally ready to feel pain of the other friend. While describing their exemplary friendship, I won’t say that they never exchanged money but their money matters were mostly of a low key nature, wherein due to some unforeseen urgency if one party decides to take a small amount like 5 to 10 dollars from the other one, it was always with an understanding to return either in the evening hours or the very next day. Suddenly due to recession the business of Mr. X wasn’t doing well, and he was seriously looking for a bank loan. Despite his best efforts, no bank was willing to extend a loan to Mr. X, and this is where he started toying with alternative options. He remembered that every year during Christmas, Mr. Y usually gets his annual bonus which is in the range of 15,000 to 20,000 dollars. Mr. X thought this is the best opportunity to borrow 10,000 dollars from Mr. Y to take care of his financial hardship. Mr. X made a story and told Mr. Y that he urgently needs USD 10,000 to execute one sale order and promised to pay back after one month, as he expects to receive USD 50,000 from one of his clients. Internally Mr. X knew that he will not be in a position to repay Mr. Y after one month [as promised] but he was forced to cook-up a false story due to lure of free money from Mr. Y as it was to come without any financing cost unlike from a bank. Mr. Y happily agreed to the request of Mr. X and gave him USD 10,000 on returnable basis after one month. Life was normal and their daily routine continued as usual for some time. However, slowly Mr. Y observed a slight change of behaviour on the part of Mr. X but he brushed it aside as a normal business tension which Mr. X occasionally faced as an entrepreneur. The month-end was slowly approaching and Mr. Y gently reminded Mr. X about his promise to pay back USD 10,000 on the due date. Mr. X assured Mr. Y that he will fulfil his commitment as promised. Suddenly just before 2 days of the deadline, Mr. Y got a phone call from Mr. X that he has to urgently go outstation and will be back after a week and thus would pay Mr. Y upon his arrival. Mr. Y did not observe anything abnormal and accepted the proposal happily. Ten days passed and there was no communication from Mr. X, moreover, his phone was unreachable and thus Mr. Y decided to send an email enquiring about his well being. Mr. X replied that due to some business urgency he would continue to be out of station and will return back after 5 days. That day was the weekend and for a change, Mr. Y thought of dining out at a new hotel which wasn’t frequented by him before. Upon his arrival at the hotel entrance he was shocked to spot Mr. X from a distance, sitting in the bar and shipping his drinks. Without observance of his presence, Mr. Y returned home as he was very much disturbed due to Mr. X’s sudden change in behaviour and narrating series of lies. Mr. Y could easily visualise the end of their friendship; however he was unable to comprehend clearly the reasons behind this sudden break-up. The reasons were obvious as friendship and money should always be kept away from each other. There are numerous examples in this world, where money has ruined many long lasting relationships. This is true, as the perfect way to ruin a friendship is to lend someone money. Therefore, one must try not to befriend business associates and seldom do business with old friends. “Neither a borrower nor a lender be.” These famous words came from Polonius, Shakespeare’s chief counsellor to King Claudius in Hamlet. As Polonius gives some fatherly advice to his son Laertes, Shakespeare gives some timeless advice to us: “Do not lend money to friends.” Why shouldn’t we lend money to friends and family? Polonius answers that in his next line: “For loan oft loses both itself and friend.” Polonius knew that a loan to a friend or family member often results in the loss of both the money and the relationship and this is what exactly was the end result of Mr. X and Mr. Y friendship i.e. loss of money as well as the friendship. In fact, loans between family members or friends can result in an entirely unexpected set of problems. Thus when it is a question of maintaining friendship or lending moneychoose one. This does not mean that we shouldn’t help each other but what it basically reiterates is that financial dealings with any known friend or a close relative must be done at an arm’s length; else there is always a danger of losing both i.e. money as well as the friendship. A difficult decision on your part to make, so I leave the choice squarely on you.