TANZANIA Livestock Research Institute (Taliri) is in a process to install Centre for Dairy Excellence (CDE) in Tanga Region to help improve efficiency in milk production. The project, set to start with a seed capital of at least 1.424bn/- is projected to serve as a unique demonstration centre for dairy farmers to access best dairy animal technologies and practices. Taliri Acting General Director, Dr Jonas Kizima, yesterday said Taliri was in talks with the government of Ireland for seed capital, saying, however, the talks were in impressive stages. He added that other funds were expected to be sourced from the government of Tanzania. “However, doors are open for stakeholders from in and outside the country to chip in and invest to make the project take off with ever technological facilities and services,” Dr Kizima said. He noted that, the focus was to enable dairy farmers in the Eastern Zone - Tanga, Dar es Salaam and Coast to increase milk production by rearing high yield dairy cows. The Taliri boss itemised some of the key dairy technologies the envisaged centre would have as best animal health services, animal feeds, animal husbandry infrastructure, milk handling, grazing systems and good dairy animal genetics. “We aspire to manage the centre in a professional manner to be a major demonstration dairy farm centre (DDFC) for all dairy farmers in the country. Moreover, the centre will also be used for dairy tourism for different foreigners visiting the country,” he insisted. Besides, he unveiled that among other things, the stateowned institution had decided to set up the crucial dairy facility in the region to help Tanga Fresh Ltd industry to process milk at its full capacity. According to him, the famous factory’s daily milk processing capacity is at least 120,000 litres, but due to poor supply of milk from dairy farmers the facility is only processing between 50,000 and 80,000 litres. “Tanga stands tall among other regions in the country with many dairy cooperatives and smallholder dairy farmers, setting up the facility there will assist them improve production, which will enable Tanga Fresh Ltd to start receiving fresh milk for processing,” he added. As the government works tirelessly to industrialise the country’s economy by 2025, he said the institute would run diverse professional initiatives to help improve milk factories, possibly through increasing home milk production, which would limit milk importation. Statistics from Tanzania Dairy Board (TDB) shows in 2019/20, the country produced 3.01 billion litres of milk, out which and 2.1 billion litres were produced from domestic dairy cows and 0.1 billion litres were from hybrid dairy cows. However, TDB Assistant Registrar Noel Byamungu said milk produced in the country was still not reflecting the country’s actual demand, which paved the way for milk importation from other countries. For instance, he said in 2017/18, Tanzania imported 20,920,537.58kg of LMEs, valued at 30,290,485,222/- and in 2018/19 the importation rate stood at 617,448,655kg.