AN ongoing implementation of Standard Gauge Railways (SGR) project received a major boost yesterday after the government signed a contract for the construction of the 5th lot of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Mwanza to Isaka. The construction of 341-kilometre railway which is expected to cost about USD 1.32 (about 3.06tril/-), will be executed within a period of 36 months, according to Tanzania Railway Corpo- ration (TRC) Director General, Masanja Kadogosa. The tendering which had been completed saw a joint venture of two Chinese companies, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) and China Railway Construction (CRC) Limited winning the deal. Yesterday, the government signed the contract for implementation of the crucial project at an event that was witnessed by President John Magufuli and Chinese Councillor and Foreign Minister, Wang Yi. Tanzania was represented by the TRC Director General, while CCECC was represented by the company’s Managing Director, Mr Zhang Junle. Speaking after the signing ceremony, both President Magufuli and Mr Wang underscored the need to fast track the implementation of the project and ensuring that the envisaged SGR was adhering to all international standards. Earlier when giving a report of the project, Mr Kadogosa said that during the tendering process, over 18 international companies had expressed interest, but finally the two Chinese companies won the tender. The Minister for Works and Transport, Dr Leonard Chamriho said the project involves the construction of 341-kilometre railway, out of which 249 kilometres will be for the main railway. According to him, the first SGR lot from Dar es Salaam- Morogoro- with 300 kilometres had reached 90 per cent while the second lot from Morogoro to Makutupora Singida (422 kilometres) had reached 50 per cent. “I want to remind the contractor that they should implement the project based on international standards as provided for in the contract documents and finish the project on time or even before,” he said. Speaking at the occasion, CCECC Managing Director, Mr Zhang Junle said his company had been in existence for over 50 years, and that apart from executing various infrastructure projects including roads and bridges, it is the same company, which implemented the TAZARA project. “Just as we did a good job when implementing the TAZARA project, we will equally construct the SGR project based on international standards and finish on time because Tanzania is our home,” he affirmed.