WITH only two days to go before the veteran defender Aggrey Morris officially retires from International football, the player claims to see a solid centre back at today’s Taifa Stars squad. A special farewell occasion for him will be held on Sunday when Taifa Stars host Congo DR in a friendly match at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam to honour his unconditional services for the national team. The game, however, will be used as part of Taifa Stars’ drills as they expect to travel to Cameroon for the 2021 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) finals set to begin on January 16th. The two teams will again play on January 13th in another build up encounter before deploying the 30 member squad to the battle zone in Cameroon for the much awaited CHAN finals. But, speaking recently in the city, Morris said football is like a marathon relay such that when you reach your finishing line, you give others a chance to complete the race. “If you can see now, there are good defenders like Bakari Mwamnyeto, Ame Ally and others who are really doing a good job and it is high time for them to seize the challenge. “There are many more good centre backs which the country is blessed with and I cannot mention them all but, the bottom line is that now, Taifa Stars is rich with prolific central defenders and this is the best time for them to play,” said him. He reminiscent the first match he played in Taifa Stars colours as a friendly duel against Kenya in 2010 where he was introduced in the second half, replacing Kelvin Yondani. “After that, we went to play in Rwanda where I was also featured and that is when my international career with Taifa Stars commenced until now when I am hanging my playing boots for the national team,” he remarked. On his part, one of the renowned veteran football coaches in the country Idd Cheche who worked with Morris both at national team and club level has described him as a player who always fights for good results. “Even at training sessions, he used to entice his colleagues to work hard and whenever the final results went against his side, you can see how painful he felt deep in his heart. “As he retires, it will be wise for him to help other emerging players such that even though he will not actively be involved, he can render his support through provision of good manners on how players ought to live both on and off the pitch,” Cheche said.