DCC Gymkhana Cup opens the year 2021 cricket showdown with the 20 Overs tournament starting today at Dar Gymkhana Club oval in Dar es Salaam. Six teams will lock horns for the tournament’s top throne, according to the organisers. The T-20 tournament will see Dar es Salaam Cricket Club (DCC) facing Uniosoft Rising Stars in the opening match. Then Agha Khan Sports Club will take over the arena by facing Strikers before Alaf Aces wind up the day’s duels by locking horns with K&P Constructions. Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) has organised the year opener, according to the association’s Communication Officer, Atif Salim. He said besides the six teams that will play in the opening day, there are 20 teams enlisted. “This tournament will include all the 20 existing clubs in Dar es Salaam,” he said and added:“The unique thing about the tournament is that the players selected to play in the TCA Super league 2020 will not be involved in the league with the exception of the Under-18 young players, who will be allowed to take part in the league. The teams are divided into four groups. Group A comprises Agha Khan Sports Club, Caravans, Sandy’s Super Strikers, Shree Kutchi Leva Patel Sports Club and Strikers. Group B includes; Dar es Salaam Cricket Club (DCC), Estim, Union Sports Club, Uniosoft Rising Stars and Upanga Sports Club. Group C consists of Alaf Aces, Annadil Burhani, Dar Black Panthers, K&P Constructions and Patel Brotherhood. Group D has General Petroleum, Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club, Lions Cricket Club, Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) and Tamil Nadu Sports Club. All matches, according to him, will be staged at Gymkhana oval in Dar es Salaam. This is going to be the first competition hosted by the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) in the year 2021 after completing a successful 2020 season. It was well witnessed how successful was the previous season which TCA organised several tournaments starting from senior level (both men and women), youth and elite and all of them despite the presence of Covid-19 scare. Among the few competitions staged included the biggest of all that is in the Advanced Players League which was won by Twiga Titans. Aces Club emerged the winners of the DC Caravans T-20 tournament also staged last year in Dar es Salaam. Also helped to brighten the year 2020, was the Paul Manyanda Pro-10 league staged at Annadil Burhan pitting on oval Division B teams. There was also Kazim Nasser Memorial League (KNML) whose winners were; Agha Khan for Division A and A1, Lion CC for Division B.