MWALIMU Nyerere Foundation (MNF) Executive Director Mr Joseph Butiku has paid glowing tribute to Zanzibar President Hussein Mwinyi for promoting Government of National Unity (GNU). Mr Butiku made the remarks on Thursday when he led a delegation from MNF to hold talks with President Mwinyi and delivered a message of congratulation to him on his election as President of Zanzibar. Mr Butiku briefed the President about the foundation and congratulated him on his election and that the victory shows how the people of Zanzibar have great faith in Dr Mwinyi in his quest to bring them development. Mzee Butiku informed the president that MNF in collaboration with Civil Society Organisations (CSO) at all levels has conducted Leadership and Management training for leaders at various levels in the country. President Mwinyi said that the GNU is committed to promoting peace, unity and solidarity for the development of the people of Zanzibar, which is in line with the principles of the founding father of the nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. “We are committed to GNU to strengthen peace, unity and cohesion, prerequisite for development,” Mwinyi said. President Mwinyi added that the move to form GNU has been a great deal of cooperation between the leaders and the majority of the people in strengthening peace after the 2020 General Election. It was an opportunity for Dr Mwinyi to congratulate the MNF for the good dialogue it runs, including the one that addresses issues of peace that have been providing guidance to the people in the whole issue of maintaining peace, unity and solidarity in the country. President Mwinyi also used the opportunity to explain the importance of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in taking the responsibility to promote peace and development of the people instead of focusing more on political issues. In addition, Dr Mwinyi stressed that his 8th phase government will continue to extend its cooperation to the foundation and all others in the country, in ensuring that the intended goals are achieved, including strengthening unity and peace for development. Dr Mwinyi also positively received the foundation's request to have its offices here in Zanzibar, and promised to work on the request, enabling the foundation to perform its duties well.