KMKM suffered a big blow this week when their key defenders Mateo Antony and Mwinyi Haji Mngwali returned to the Mainland Premier League teams. Both players served Young Africans during the Hans van der Pluijm era and had successful careers with the Dar es Salaam football giants. Antony has joined Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) while Mngwali has joined Ruvu Shooting coached by Charles Boniface Mkwasa. KMKM’s Assistant secretary Suleiman Rajab ‘Kisheta’ confirmed about the departure saying both completed normal transfer procedures. But, he cautioned that Mngwali needs to settle certain legal processes before joining Ruvu Shooting. “The deal is done with Mateo, but there are several things Mngwali must complete before leaving the club,” he explained. Following the departure of the two defenders, the KMKM official said his club plans to recruit only one defender to fill the void. Explaing further he said their target is to recruit a prolific striker, and as the present squad seem to deliver. “We are waiting for the mini-transfer window season to start the recruitment,” he further notified. KMKM are Zanzibar Premier League’s defending champions and the club, according to the official, aims to win again the league title this season. KMKM are still on the pilot seat having carved 19 points while their closest challengers Mafunzo have so far collected 12 points. Meanwhile, the 9th round of the Zanzibar Premier League starts tomorrow in various venues of Unguja and Pemba. The league resumes after a two-week suspension to give a room for Mapinduzi Cup Championship. There are 12 teams in the Isles Premier League. There league resumption will have three matches. At Mao Zedong, Black Sailor will play JKU while Amaan stadium will host a match between Kipanga and Chuoni. The same day, Malindi will be away in Pemba to face Hard Rock in an encounter to be staged at Gombani Stadium. Until the league’s stoppage time, 94 goals were netted in the 44 matches the teams have played so far.