THE Embassy of France in Tanzania on Thursday hosted a cultural festival with the theme: ‘Night of Ideas’ aimed at promoting social inclusion, where participants shared different ideas on togetherness (pamoja) culture. Attended by over 200 participants mostly students from different universities and institutions, the occasion was graced by panellists answering questions from the public on how to interact and share cultural traits, which foster good and co-habitual relations in society. Attending the festival, French Ambassador to Tanzania Frédéric Clavier further said French President Emmanuel Macron pushed for building a new unprecedented relationship between his country and the African continent in the field of culture. The envoy noted that the festival was promoting the Tanzanian culture which harmonised its people through Kiswahili and created a platform for all sorts of artists to display their talents. “We want to co-build cultural projects between artists, French and African creators and in this way the French Embassy is committed to increasing support to up-coming artists and collaborating with cultural institutions in Tanzania like Basata, Nafasi Art Space, Muda Africa or the DCMA in Zanzibar. “Again, the cultural industry and creative industry will strengthen the social relations and promote the priority themes of development such as education, gender, citizenship and solidarity. “You (Tanzanians) are lucky that you have your language (Kiswahili) that promotes your culture, just as we have French that promotes our culture from facing extinction. If a culture lacks a particular language to promote it, chances are that it must face challenges and phase out,” added the envoy. He further said the day was part of France globally and every year in its embassies, Alliances Francaises, institutions celebrated free movements of ideas. “This year, the sixth edition of the Night of Ideas with the theme ‘Together’, (in Kiswahili Pamoja) saw cultural centres, libraries, universities, museums and art in five continents joining the event again to promote moments of privileged encounters with intellectuals and artists, actors of change and writers feeling closer than ever. This strengthens connections and borders for people to interact with other audiences without barriers to celebrate together - Pamoja culture in Tanzania,” said Mr Clavier. For her part, Head of Development Cooperation and Cultural Arts at the embassy, Cecile Frobert said the Night of Ideas event was based on the Pamoja concept, Tanzanian uniqueness through a debate, painting exhibitions, dance performance and concerts worth attending. Commenting, Akiko Dart, a painter who attended the event said there was a need to promote Tanzanian culture which was rich in several educative matters, besides creating job opportunities to the youth as an industry.