POOR identification of culprits has saved two people from remaining on the death row for killing a village mate, Exavery Edmund who had been suspected of stealing illicit liquor, commonly known as gongo. Justices Stella Mugasha, Lugano Mwandambo and Ignas Kitus ruled in favour of the two people, Vicent Clemence and Kato Simon, who were the appellants, after allowing their appeal they had lodged to oppose the decision of the High Court. “We therefore allow the appeal and order the appellants’ immediate release from prison unless they are otherwise held for another lawful cause,” they ruled. The justices noted that the incidence leading to the murder of Edmund, who was hanged on the ceiling board involved about 25 to 30 people who were at the scene of crime, and that such episode occurred at night with moonlight. They agreed with the counsel for the appellants that there was no sufficient light to identify the suspected killers because the moonlight had to be supplemented by torches which, incidentally, were aimed in the direction of the victim hanging on top of the ceiling. “We find it hard to agree with the prosecution that the bulb of two watts assisted (one person) who was peeping through the window to identify those who were outside,” they said. The justices also found no plausible explanation why the prosecution witnesses’ ability to identify those who were at the scene was limited to only two out of those 25 or so people. They also held that there was a fundamental contradiction as to whether the first appellant was identified at the scene of crime. “In the end, we find merit in the second ground of appeal because we are satisfied that the evidence of visual identification was too weak to ground the conviction of the appellants and the contradiction of PW3 and PW5 on a material aspect of the case remained unresolved,” they ruled. The justices also noted a consensus from submissions by both prosecution and defence on the first ground of appeal, that the summing up of the case to assessors by the trial judge was not properly done as required by the law under the Criminal Procedure Act. As a result, they also found merit on that ground of appeal and, so consequently, nullified the proceedings and quashed them, as well as the conviction and set aside the sentence imposed on the appellants. The justices declined the invitation to order a retrial, as the prosecution would use such opportunity to fill in the fundamental gaps they have pointed out in the course of addressing the question relating to identification of the culprits involved in the murder. On December 6, 2013 at Kabale - Bwera village in Karagwe District, Exavery Edmund met a brutal death. There is evidence that he had been suspected of stealing quantities of the illicit liquor commonly known as “gongo” and he paid dearly for it. This is because he was flogged, tied and hung up on rafters of an abandoned house, where he was left to die. The appellants were jointly charged under section 196 of the Penal Code allegedly for being the ones who flogged him to death. Three witnesses testified to have seen and identified the appellants at the scene of the murder as the ones who inflicted the fatal injuries on the deceased. The appellants denied any involvement in the killing of the deceased and alleged bad blood between them and those who arrested them. The High Court accepted the version of the prosecution witnesses and rejected that of the appellants. Consequently, it convicted the appellants of the charged offence of murder and sentenced them to death.