MOZAMBIQUE President Filipe Nyusi is expected in the country today for a State visit as Tanzania looks to broaden trade and investment ties with her southern neighbour. While in the country, President Nyusi will hold talks with his host President John Magufuli on how the two countries could foster business and investment opportunities. A plane carrying Mr Nyusi is expected to land at the new Geita- Chato Airport at around 10:30 am, according to Geita Regional Commissioner, Eng Robert Gabriel. Speaking yesterday, Eng Gabriel asked Chato residents to turn up in bigger numbers as it has always been in Tanzanian culture, to warmly welcome visiting leaders. Briefing journalists on Mr Nyusi’s two-day official visit, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, said Mr Nyusi and Dr Magufuli are expected to discuss trade matters, especially on how best the two neighbouring countries can foster trade and investment. Statistics from the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) show that bilateral trade on exports between the two countries has increased from 76.4bn/- in 2018 to 93.5bn/- in 2019. Accordingly, Prof Kabudi noted there were major Tanzanian companies that have heavily invested in the neighbouring Mozambique, including Quality Form and Bakhresa Group of Companies, among others. The minister further said that the Mozambican President tour of the country also seeks to strengthen bilateral diplomatic, political and social relations between the two countries. “Mr Nyusi had planned to visit Tanzania earlier last year but he postponed due to various reasons including last year’s General Election,” said Prof Kabudi. This is the second time Mr Nyusi is visiting Tanzania during President Magufuli’s regime. Last time, the Mozambique top leader visited Tanzania in December 2017, and he was received by Dr Magufuli at Dodoma. Mozambique and Tanzania have cordial relations since Mozambique got its independence from Portugal. After independence, civil war broke out between the ruling party, Front for Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO) and Mozambique Resistance Movement (RENAMO), who were backed by Rhodesia and South Africa. According to Prof Kabudi, the bilateral relations between the two countries were initiated by the two founding fathers, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Dr Eduardo Mondlane, who is the founder of FRELIMO. FRELIMO was formed in Tanzania with the assistance of Mwalimu Nyerere to help the group fight the Portuguese government and was given land during the civil war to form military camps. After the end of the war, Tanzania continued to maintain good relationships with the neighbouring country. “Since then, all Heads of State, who came to power during the free Mozambique starting with Samora Machel the first President after independence to Mr Nyusi, the incumbent president have maintained these relations, and that is why during the burial of former Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa, the Mozambican Ambassador to Tanzania Ms Monica Mussa brought the condolence message from President Nyusi. According to Prof Kabudi, Mr Nyusi’s visit was therefore, demonstrating the brotherly diplomatic relations that the two countries have enjoyed for many years. “He has decided to come to Chato because Dr Magufuli is currently here,” he added.