THE government is considering conducting an in-depth analysis on access to reproductive health, family planning and other services offered by health facilities countrywide. National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) announced that the survey is expected this month as part of collecting data on health to help the government and other stakeholders' on strategic plans and to improve reproductive health services in communities. Acting Chief Government Statistician, Ms Sylvia Meku said that during a training session of researchers and supervisors, adding that the survey will also help improve reproductive health education-one of the preventive measures against the spread of various sexually transmitted diseases and unwanted pregnancies. "This survey is vital in understanding access to family planning services," she said. The training, according to Meku is designed to equip researchers with the needed knowledge and skills on how to collect the required information on family planning and other health services provided by local health centres. This is the second survey after the one conducted in 2018. A similar survey is being conducted in 46 other African countries. She noted that the idea behind the survey is also to help improve communities’ access to contraceptive pills and medications used in maternal health. The information obtained will help the government to determine contraceptive methods, as well as guidelines of the specific health facility in the country. "The report will help in understanding the available family planning methods and existing drugs. Besides, the survey will establish the number of active professionals and their training qualification in each health facility. This is the key process in decision making and it will facilitate in resource allocation to improve the reproductive health situation," she added. Apparently the survey will be conducted across all districts and regions in the country, where public health experts believe it will update the 2018 document and enhance the implementation of various health projects, local and regional development plans. It will further help in the monitoring process for the implementation of regional and international policies, as well as the performance of the second national development plan which ends in 2021. Zanzibar's Ministry of Health representative Hasna Ali Mohammed Shein said the survey will advance service delivery in challenged areas both Tanzania Mainland and the Isles. She further said the report that will be produced this year will help in the implementation of the third national development plan slated for 2021/22 to 2025/26. "This study is very important especially for our health ministries to identify areas that are challenging in the provision of reproductive health services so that the governments can address and improve services to the citizens. “It is also important in the implementation of global sustainable goals number 3 ensuring healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages by 2030," she said.