IN 2020, Covid-19 infection affected almost all nations and going by World Health Organisation (WHO) statistics and updates, more than 50 million people around the world has their lives or lives of their love one been touched by the crisis caused by corona virus direct or indirectly. The Covid-19 transformed the norms of human well being and it might take time to return to normalcy. Coronavirus pandemic has challenged governments, industrialised and emerging countries to operate in a context of far-reaching uncertainty, and this uncertainty has sent shockwaves to the manner in which trade-offs between the health demands, economic regeneration plans and meeting social challenges needs could be attained as premeditated. While at the Covid-19 pandemic pinnacle level, experienced throughout the year 2020, more than half of the world’s population, differently each nation in an attempt to restrain spread of the corona virus experienced some kind of lockdown or partial lockdown with strong containment measures. Record to date indicates that these measures didn’t be executed without criticisms. Amidst steps taken to contain the spread of the virus, and looking back 2020 and seeing ahead 2021, Tanzania has all reasons to rejoice as far as measures to hold on and living with the virus threats due to exemplary leadership in times of crisis, demonstrated by Dr JPM who saw the need to lead Tanzania in a distinctive direction while laying groundwork for future economic prosperity amidst global Covid-19 pandemic. Exemplary leadership in times of crisis, and how JPM led and created a foundation to country’s journey to economic prosperity amidst global Covid-19 pandemic elevated Tanzania, amongst other initiatives taken during 5th phase Dr JPM’s administration to enter into middle-income nations earlier than it was thought at times Dr JPM was been censured of underplaying the fight against Covid-19 menace. Today as we begin 2021, many other countries are now taking that Dr JPM was right on measures and approach he executed. At the time Dr JPM was envisioning about what could be best option in Tanzanian context and for Tanzanians to deal with Covid-19 pandemic, health experts elsewhere were saying Tanzania ventured into becoming one of the world’s pandemic disaster areas. Dr JPMs approach has proved them wrong. Tanzania is exceptional and will remain to be unique on courses of interest to Tanzanians. I am of the opinion that under such crisis, everyone deserves access to information that’s grounded in science and truth, and analysis rooted in authority and integrity. Dr JPM at the beginning hardened and put into task measures that were being evangelised by re-questioning the quality of testing equipment and process and the rest is history. What is critical, in deathdefying times caused by Covid-19 threat, a truth-seeking leadership as indicated by Dr JPM in dealing with crisis is critical. Dr JPM among other things stood firm on fighting Covid-19 in an approach that left many to be astonished. Why? In this unmatched year of interconnecting crises, Dr JPM steered Tanzania to a position that is now becoming a hot spot for foreign investment desirability. The modus in which infrastructure to handle Covid-19 crisis were executed, effectively, enabled 2020 general election to be conducted successfully, though, some contenders from other political parties were against decision to go ahead with general election 2020 due to fear of Covid-19 virus increase. It isn’t secret, Dr JPM’s presidency and his leadership style, has enhanced Tanzania reputation in many aspects from fighting corruption to value for money delivery on major developmental infrastructure projects towards practicing what is termed as walking the talk. He rejects being persuaded to meet other third party interest at county’s advantage. Why exemplary leadership in times of crisis, exhibited by Dr JPM is valuable amidst global Covid-19 pandemic? The coronavirus epidemic and the subsequent economic head are evolving rapidly in scope and gravity. To guide economic, policy makers in the 2021 and years ahead, need a better understanding of what is happening and what is best for their nations. Meaning, the economic costs will be considerable and as analysis suggests, Africa’s GDP would be hit by at least $25 billion and since Tanzania isn’t an island, we may need to be ready to plan ahead how to survive with such hit. Controls on people, workers and firms will continue to cause a parallel decline in demand in sectors like travel and tourism, but also in manufacturing. Global supply chains will be seeing disruption in the supply of components, such as machinery or fabrics and this could affect Tanzania as exporter of raw materials and importer of machinery and spare-parts to mention a few. The crisis will remain to have general effect to the financial sector. Stock markets will continue to be affected, wiping away gains made over the last years projections. Bad loan and non-performing loans will increase and it might be more difficult to issue and roll over corporate and sovereign bonds at least to some counties. Global foreign direct investment will too be touched. As an economist cum investment analyst, the economic effects of coronavirus will no longer follow a traditional known V-shaped growth pattern, a sharp downturn followed by a sharp upturn. In my assessment, growth following Covid-19 pandemic effects will likely be U-shaped, a longer downturn, as news of the Chinese slowdown is compounded by comparable news in Japan, UK, Italy, and perhaps the US and elsewhere in the future. It means, in my view there is now a real likelihood of L-shaped growth, i.e. slower growth for some time as the world enters 2021. If deglobalisation accelerates and the real crisis in supply and demand spills over to financial markets takes a different turn more insecurity will be probable. What is an obvious outcome; different country and economic activities will be affected in different ways. How diversified a country’s value chains and production systems are as the global economy comes out of this crisis, alongside their adoption of digital technologies, will be vital for Tanzania. This crisis is a leveller that will touch the health, businesses, plans and wealth of the middle classes, the poorest, and politicians alike. To sustain strategic sectors to continue functioning, bridge finance will help sectors such as airline, hotels and people in businesses whose output impact the economic growth to overcome a sharp but short decline, but besieged structural change can move a country such as Tanzania into a new niche sector and make use of opportunities in service industries and trade. If Tanzania can engineer this transformation fast will have an advantage to grow its economy speedier. While undeniably there is much debate regarding how countries’ responses differ in terms of needed resources, speed and strictness, in addition to fiscal and monetary incentives and measures, Dr JPM leadership has offered the way on how firmness and consideration, taking context on the ground could be valuable during period of crisis like the one the world is facing today