MINISTER for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Innocent Bashungwa is expected to grace the Super Cup match between Simba and TP Mazembe at Benjamin Mkapa stadium in the city today. Branded ‘Road to the Champions League’ the three team International competition is set to wind up today at the giant Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city whereby the winner will pocket 15m/- plus a trophy. As it stands, Simba have a big advantage to win the competition if they manage to outclass the five time Champions of Africa who lost their inaugural match 2-1 to Sudan’s Al Hilal at the same venue on Friday. Both Mazembe and Al Hilal have been packed in the same group of the CAF Champions League hence they examined each other in a foreign land before locking horns in the elite club football contest on the continent. Simba and Al Hilal have claimed three points each but the home team tops the ladder courtesy of netting more goals after a 4-1 triumph over the Sudan based club in the opening match of the competition. Super substitute Bernard Morrison made headlines on the day when he pumped in two goals within three minutes (87th to 90th) complimenting Perfect Chikwende and Larry Bwalya opening goals. It was simply a good performance from the organisers of the event who are using them to scale up the team ahead of their approaching important group stage Champions League matches. Speaking recently, Simba Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Barbara Gonzalez narrated that the idea behind the Super Cup came to give their new coach Didier Gomes Da Rosa a starting point of knowing his players. The Frenchman trainer is looking to get his first title at the helm of the club if his side emerge winners of the Super Cup contest, the first of its kind to unfold on the Tanzania soil. He however has a big task ahead to ensure that Simba retain the league title this season plus winning the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) and stepping into the semifinals of the Champions League which are the core targets of the club. He already vowed to do his best to help the team continuously win the top flight league so as to make frequent appearance in the continent’s biggest club football showpiece. In the elite league, Simba expect to play Dodoma Jiji at Jamhuri Stadium on February 4th before returning to the city to host Azam at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in their endeavour to claim all six points.