YOUNG Africans have assured their fans and members that they will do whatever it takes to continue making them happy throughout this year. Yanga survived a real scare from Tanzania Prisons on Thursday at the Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga after forcing a 1-1 draw to finish last year without conceding a defeat. They continue to enjoy their undefeated run this season after going 18 games unscratched but have lost the status of having a solid defence as they have conceded 7 goals against five conceded by their close challengers Simba. The game, however, was deprived its beauty as it unfolded on a waterlogged pitch which undermined smooth flow of the ball thereby creating a war-like atmosphere for the men on the battlefield. But, at a post-match briefing, Head Coach Cedric Kaze seized the opportunity to assure their fans that this year; they will continue to fight hard to maintain their happiness. “Fans should expect more from us because the direction of the team is now promising if you can judge from where we started and where we are as such, this year, we will continue to make them proud,” Kaze said. Commenting about the game itself, he said in the first half, the match was difficult for his men because they inherited playing style of Tanzania Prisons of using long balls. “We already knew that they prefer playing long balls and fielding more players at the midfield section of the pitch as such, the only way to maneuver them was to use wingers. “In the second half, we tried to play our game but unfortunately, we conceded hence we had to give in everything and in the end, we succeeded to equalise the goal. All in all, one point away is not that bad...we will have thorough preparations for the next games,” Kaze noted. His counterpart for Tanzania Prisons Salum Mayanga disclosed that the energy that Yanga had after conceding the goal was the main reason which made them to park the bus. “Aside from that, I salute my players for the good game they had to earn one point from home which was not what we desired but, the game itself was tough,” he said. He then conceded that basing on the position they occupy on the league ladder, the final product of the match was a loss to them as they had to win to climb up the stairs. His side sits on 9th slot with 22 points after playing 18 matches and they recorded their seventh draw of the season. The draw was a throwback to the first round result between them at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium where they also drew 1-1.