THE International Federation of Football History and Statistics (IFFHS) have placed the Mainland Premier League on 8th slot in Africa and 71st in the world, a step towards the right direction. This means the country’s Premier League has surpassed countries like Uganda and Kenya as far as having the best league is concerned according to the IFFHS which compiled and published the findings. Therefore, ten countries with best football leagues on the continent and their world rankings in brackets as per IFFHS are as follows: Egypt (15), Morocco (33), Tunisia (36), South Africa (57), DR Congo (60), Zambia (65), Sudan (69), Tanzania (71), Algeria (76) and Nigeria (77). Meanwhile, implementation of club licensing has been named as a pinnacle which can to a large extent help to uplift football standards in the country. This was said over the weekend by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) president Wallace Karia in Zanzibar during the three-day good governance workshop which has attracted club chairmen from Tanzania Mainland and Isles. “The issue of club licensing has helped many countries in the world to stamp success in football development that is why we usually remind you as decision makers at your clubs to wholeheartedly welcome it. “Honestly, in order to experience football development in Tanzania, we need to ensure that a lot of work is done to both Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar so as to be able to sing one song,” said Karia. He further pointed out that the success of club licensing will assist to get competitive national teams from the two sides capable to make it big on the international arena. “Despite pushing hard for its implementation, we have realised that the whole process is going through many challenges which demand consolidated approach to address them and move forward,” he noted. He then elaborated that the main objective of the three day seminar is to equip the club chairmen with modern ways of running football activities as things keep on changing continuously according to time.