THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam has ordered American citizen, Neema Wapampo (20) to be deported from the country if he would not legalise his presence status after completing the sentence imposed on him for illegal stay. Senior Resident Magistrate Rashid Chaungu gave such order yesterday after convicting Wapampo of one count of unlawful presence in Tanzania on his own plea of guilty, when he was brought to the court to face the criminal charge. The magistrate sentence him to pay 500,000/- fine or go to jail for one year in default of paying the fine in question. “The convict is to be handed back to the Immigration Department for him to legalise his presence status after completing the sentence, default of which he should be deported,” he ruled. Presenting facts of the case, which were admitted by the American Citizen, Prosecuting Attorney from Immigration Department Khadija Masoud told the court that the convict committed the offence on August 31, 2020 at Kigamboni area in Kigamboni District within Dar es Salaam City. The court was told that on the material date in Kigamboni District, being an American citizen, Wapampo was found living in the United Republic of Tanzania without having a valid visa or any other document authorising him to do so. It was stated that having being found in the country living illegally, the accused person was arrested by officers of the Department and taken to Immigration offices in Kigamboni District for interrogation. Wapampo, according to the prosecution, recorded his cautioned statement during the interrogation. The prosecution told the court further that the accused person admitted in his statement to have committed the offence. On January 22, 2021, the accused person was taken to court to answer the charge of unlawful presence in the country. Meanwhile, nine people appeared before the same court yesterday charged with nine counts of stealing several kilogrammes of Ammonium Nitrate chemicals and being found in possession of the same goods suspected to have been stolen or unlawfully acquired. They are Bashir Mfinanga (61), Siliak Waipopo (50), Juma Wazir (34), Juma Salehe (29), Zakaria Ndaya (40), who are all Drivers, Abas Sikanyika (34), a Peasant, God Mshana (30), a Technician, Masumbuko Fumbo (43), who is also a Peasant and Zephania Kigola (33), a Teacher. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Yusto Ruboroga, the accused persons denied the charges. They were remanded until January 28, 2021 for bail consideration. The case will be mentioned on February 9, 2021, as investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution, are incomplete.