NGORONGORO C o n s e r v a t i o n Area Authority –NCAA ‘Women Community Centre’ was among the groups that were badly affected by the coronavirus outbreak, with its quarterly income dropping from around 3m/- to zero. “No tourist, local or foreign, entered the conservation’s gate,” lamented one of the group members, Ms Matasya Nengeyo recently. She says the zero turnout of tourists affected the members drastically, considering that most of them sell traditional body and home decorations which they used to sell to the visitors. Apart from this, all community members within NCAA are strictly forbidden to conduct any human activities, apart from pastoral and entrepreneurship-related activities, which is meant to protect the environment and wildlife. All the same, the community members say that in case they involve themselves in farming activities, they still face the challenge of dealing with destructive wild animals who give no room for farm crops to mature. Commenting on what the group members learnt from the corona outbreak and the taken precautionary measures in case of similar outbreak, Ms Nengeyo said that they are eagerly waiting for a cattle product processing factory promised by the Authority, as its commitment to improve the NCAA community’s livelihood. She says that the factories will be their alternative and reliable source of income. The Group Head, Mr Sadera Olemoko expressed his gratitude to the government following its efforts to fight Covid-19, which led to a quick resumption of the tourist activities. He stressed that members of the NCAA community are completely dependent on livestock, in terms of cattle sales saying that the available milk is not enough for business but only for home consumption. “Cattle selling is for men. Women completely depend on traditional decorations businesses; whose clients are mainly tourists. We completely closed business during the Corona outbreak, but we are back now after resumption of tourism activities,” he said. Reached for comment, the NCAA Conservation Commissioner (CC), Dr Freddy Manongi admitted that human activities were strictly prohibited in the Authority following possible negative impacts to the conservation. He said another reason behind banning human activities in the conservation area was due to an increase in human population in the conservation, from 8,000 in 1959 to the current100,000 people. “I’m trying to contemplate the look of Ngorongoro in the coming 10 years. Conservation activities seem to be difficult, with humans–wild animal conflict increasing… and how we will move on in terms of humans and wildlife sustainable development,” said the CC. According to him, 20 per cent of the NCAA population own 80 per cent of the livestock, while illiterate rate stands at 64.7 per cent, despite various efforts by the Authority, including sponsorship to students as well as construction of school infrastructures. For his part, NCAA Personal Assistant Conservation Commissioner, Mr Elibariki Bajuta admitted that introduction of the processing factories was on progress. The Authority is set to bring in high breed domesticated animals for availability of quality livestock products, mostly meat, skins and milk. “Improvements in domesticated animals will make processing factories sustainable. The factories will play various roles at a time, including creation of employment opportunities for NCAA community members, with gender balance being a priority. It is from those improvements that women will have enough quality raw materials to sustain their entrepreneurship businesses,” said Mr Bajuta, adding that the women will be able to sustain their businesses given the fact that apart from increasing their income, their traditional products are among main tourist attractions in the conservation. He also admitted that not only women entrepreneurs but the whole NCAA community was badly affected by the Corona outbreak because no visitor showed up during the hectic period. “This made NCAA revenue to also drop from billions of shillings to zero. However, we are thankful that the situation is getting back to normal, with a good number of tourists resuming their trips to Tanzania,” he said. Last year, the then Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla admitted in Parliament that tourism was among the badly affected sectors by Covid-19. He was presenting an estimation of the Ministry’s income and expenditure for 2020/21, saying that due to the outbreak, opportunities for tourism advertisements wouldn’t bring positive results following tourists’ travel ban from one country to another. The ban led to decrease in the number of tourists, revenues as well as affecting the employment market and the whole value chain in the tourism sector. “The Ministry will apply electronic means of communications, including social media for various tourists’ attractions advertisements, in the name of mobilising and convincing tourists to visit Tanzania after Covid-19 is controlled,” he said. Addressing the 11th Parliament last year, President John Magufuli said that Tanzania managed to fight Covid-19 blow, including its economic impacts. “As you know, the World Bank and International Monetary Fund have predicted that 60 per cent of Sub Saharan African countries will experience negative economic growth this year (2020). However, based on steps we, Tanzania, have taken, our economy is expected to continue effectively growing at a rate of 5.5 per cent,” said the President. On top of that, he said Tanzania continued to protect people’s employment, maintaining food security as well as implementing various major development projects. As a result of the Corona outbreak, President Magufuli urged Tanzanians to fully engage in prayers as a first preventive and curative measure. All learning institutions closed for some time, with the government encouraging people to adhere to directives from health expertise on more preventive measures. It also insisted on the use of traditional herbs, with some institutions, including the University of Dar es Salaam and National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) coming up with FUKIZA UNADOL and NIMRCAF (herbs) respectively. Following remarkable Covid-19 fighting results, the president declared re-opening of all learning institutions from 29th June of 2020.