IT’S do or die for the Tanzanian envoys, Taifa Stars as they play Guinea in the third group D match of Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) at Reunification Stadium in Douala, Cameroon tonight. The highly decisive match will be staged from 10:00pm and Tanzanians are hoping to see their envoys clear that hurdle. Only a victory will be enough to take the country’s envoys into the quarterfinals of the tournament which brings together national teams whose players trade in their domestic leagues. On the other hand, their opponents Guinea just need a draw to march into the last eight of the contest to join Zambia who have already qualified regardless the outcome of their match versus Namibia also set today. A 1-0 triumph over Namibia gave Taifa Stars morale to go deep and that can only be fulfilled if they manage to bundle out group D leaders Guinea in a classic match. Speaking ahead of the clash, Stars player Farid Mussa said the only way which can make them outclass Guinea is to fully apply on the battlefield the lessons imparted to them by their coach. “We are progressing well with preparations and the coach has got his plan on how we should approach the game. I believe that if we can execute 100 per cent of what the coach wants us to play, then we stand a good chance to win. “I was happy when I scored the only goal against Namibia which revived our chances to reach far in the competition. But, that match is over, our focus now is on the next encounter,” he said. Also, the team’s Assistant Coach Juma Mgunda said the most important thing is to fully prepare for today’s game to get good results and qualify into the quarterfinals. “As you know, we are in a competition and here, what matters most are the tangible results gained at the end of the match regardless how your side played. “All players who make up our team are of good health and so far, we have no injury concerns. As I speak with you, we have already arrived in Douala from Limbe where the match will be staged,” Mgunda said. He continued that their 1-0 win over Namibia to large extent boosted morale of players and that they are all hopeful to win again against Guinea. “We are thankful to the prayers from Tanzanians who wish their team well and they should continue to pray for us as we head to another crucial match. These players are Tanzanians hence they need our full support to encourage them to achieve more,” he said. This is the second time for Taifa Stars to feature in the CHAN finals after doing the same in 2009 when they made their debut in a contest which was held in Ivory Coast.