ALMOST all survivors of a fatal train accident that occurred in the country’s capital over the weekend have been treated and discharged, Dodoma Referral Hospital officials have confirmed. As of on Monday, out of 66 people who had sustained injuries, there were only three patients who were still receiving treatment, according to the hospital’s Medical-in-Charge, Stanley Mahundo. According to him, all survivors of the accident who had recuperated were handed over to the Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC), so as to continue with transport logistics. A passenger train derailed after cruising on a flooded track shortly after leaving the capital city, Dodoma, killing three people, while injuring 86 others. The deceased included a crew member and a child. TRC said prior to the accident, the train was on its way to Kigoma Region from Dar es Salaam, when it derailed late Saturday at Kigwe area, Bahi District over stormy weather. Out of 86 people who sustained injuries, 66 were rushed to Dodoma Referral Hospital, while 20 others were admitted at Bahi District Hospital. “We still have only three patients out of whom two are males and one is a female and they are recuperating well any time from now they can also be discharged,’’ noted Mr Mahundo, during an interview yesterday. According to him, six survivors of the accident underwent minor surgeries, hinting further that even the 20 injured persons who had been admitted at Bahi District Hospital had been treated and discharged after recovering. TRC reported that it had dispatched a dozen busses to ferry stranded passengers to Dar es Salaam from Manyoni and the survivors travelling to Kigoma, Mwanza, Tabora and Katavi regions. According to Mr Mahundo, the government had made tremendous strides in improving health services and infrastructure, a move he said had helped in providing emergency medical services within a short period of time. “For us this is a big milestone and I wish to thank the government for improving medical services, and, Tanzanians should know that we are well prepared to provide timely adequate medical services,’’ added Mr Mahundo. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) has successfully removed wagons from the scene of the derailed passenger train in Dodoma Region, reports Isdory Kitunda TRC Director General, Eng Masanja Kadogosa said yesterday that the corporation has launched an investigation to establish the cause of the accident. He added that the investigation not only targets to know the people were involved to cause the accident, but also to prevent further accidents from happening. On her side, Bahi District Commissioner Mwanakhamis Munkunda said that a thorough inspection was carried out in all 11 train wagons and that no passenger or passenger’s luggage was found stranded inside. A statement from TRC detailed that the train was carrying 720 passengers from the country’s commercial city, Dar es Salaam. It said six of the 12 wagons derailed at around 6:27 pm 58 kilometres from Dodoma city. Among top leaders who visited the train crash survivors include Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan and the Minister for Home Affairs, George Simbachawene.