TANZANIA golf fraternity is mourning the sudden demise of the former Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) honorary treasurer Lina Nkya who passed away on Tuesday. TLGU president Sophie Viggo confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that senior golfer Nkya died on Tuesday at KCMC Hospital in Moshi, Kilimanjaro of undisclosed illness. “It’s shocking sad news to receive, I could not believe and became speechless when I heard the news from one of the family members. This is because I met her at a bank in Moshi on Friday and she looked healthy,” added Viggo. Lina Nkya, who will be laid to rest tomorrow in Moshi, was one of longest TLGU serving members who also served as an honorary treasurer between 2010 and 2012. On behalf of TLGU, Viggo has sent condolences to the Nkya family and friends and the entire golf fraternity. The deceased husband and senior golfer who served Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) as a handicap secretary, Said Nkya, one of her sons Fadhil Nkya, who is one of the country top professional golfers are among those deeply saddened by her death. The Nkya family members said they were planning to travel to Dar es Salaam to take part at Waitara Golf Trophy. TGU chairman Chris Martin added that Lina Nkya will be remembered for her support towards golf development. “She was good juniors golf supporter, especially in Moshi, hence we lost one of very important persons,” said Martin. Many ladies golfers have been shocked with the sudden demise of Lina Nkya, and they too; send their condolences to the family saying Nkya has been always a good friend, charming lady and open minded person who could carry out any resentment. The death also touched the former TGU Administrator, Sophie Nyanjera who sent statement to remember Nkya. Nyanjera said: “I send my condolence to the family especially her sons Fadhil and Hassan who we were good friends during my stay in Dar es Salaam, I’m very shocked with the news, and I pray to God to give them strength at this difficult time.” TLGU honorary secretary Medina Iddi said: “Mama Lina Nkya will be remembered as one of the ladies golf founders. “I think it is time as union to find ways to remember the lady golfers for their contribution to the development of the game.”