Happy New Year 2021. WE hit the ground running, this time addressing water shortage in Mbeya District. A writer for the Good Citizen (December 30, p. 5), narrates what is going on in that area, in a news item entitled: “Mbeya Water Boss Given Ultimatum”. The ultimatum was given by the Deputy Minister for Water. She is quoted as saying the following: “Regional Water Engineer, you need to supervise district water engineers to quickly conduct a feasibility study aimed at finding ‘another water’” Why the urgency, you may ask? The writer quoted the Deputy Minister as pointing out that: “residents of the (named two) villages have been complaining of facing an acute water ‘shortages’ ‘for over years’”. Is the engineer required to “find another water”? We do not think so. The engineer is supposed to find another “water source”, since, it looks like the current one is inadequate. Have villagers been complaining of facing an acute water “shortages” for “over” years? Again we think some words need changing. “An acute water shortages” should be: “an acute water shortage”. As “for over years”, the preposition “over” is unnecessary. The villagers have been complaining of facing an acute shortage of water “for years”. Clearly, the New Year will see villagers rejoicing at seeing their long-standing water problem sorted out. Back in Dar es Salaam, and still with the same paper, we are told, in a news item titled: “Assist cane growers, bank urged”, that the Minister for Investment is rooting for the idea where small-scale sugarcane growers can be financed to engage in sugar production. According to the writer: “The Minister was optimistic that the idea ‘could be materialised’, given the fact that sugar production did not require a complicated ‘merchandised’ system”. I am wondering whether an idea could be materialised. An idea could materialize. It could become reality. I am also finding this idea of “a complicated merchandised system” rather intriguing. Chances are, the writer had “mechanised system”, instead of “merchandised system” in mind. Thus, the Minister should be reported to have been: “optimistic that his idea could materialise, given the fact that sugar production did not require a complicated mechanised system”. The Minister is reported to have said something more: “Considering the fact that more than 60 per cent of Tanzanians ‘are’ involved in agriculture, or agriculture related activities, investment in the sector is ‘investable’”. The concept of an investment being “investable” is rather curious. The writer must have had something else in mind, and we reckon, he was thinking of the viability of an investment. So, the Hon Minister could be reported to have said the following: “Considering the fact that more than 60 per cent of Tanzanians ‘is’ (not ‘are’) involved in agriculture, or agriculture-related activities, investment in the sector is ‘viable’, (not ‘investable’)”. An official of the Bank is reported to have told the Hon Minister that: “the Bank was grappling with capital crunch to finance ‘more big’ projects”. “More big projects”? Surely, the comparative form of the adjective “big”, is “bigger”, “biggest”; not, big, more big, most big. This means, what the official said could be reported to have been: “the Bank was grappling with capital crunch to finance ‘bigger’, (not, ‘more big’) projects”. Still in Dar es Salaam, the Minister for Lands is reported to have made an appeal to people who were given titles to land to collect their certificates: “Come, collect title deeds, Minister urges 20,750 holders”, goes the headline of the news item. “The Minister urged ‘land occupants’ who were yet to collect title deeds to do so immediately”. Was the Minister addressing “land occupants”, i.e. people in physical occupation of the land? Not necessarily. We believe, he was addressing “land owners”. They may be occupying the land, they may be residing elsewhere. They are owners, nevertheless. Finally, the Minister urged “citizens to build in designated and ‘tested’ plots”. “Tested Plots”? Nope. More likely, he talked of “Titled” plots. Do collect your certificate of title, will you? lusuggakironde@gmail.com 