TANZANIA sports fraternity mourns the sudden demise of Anna Bayi, an inspirational netball legend who has immensely contributed to the development of netball, athletics, basketball for over four decades. Anna Bayi, who served the Tanzania Amateur Netball Association (Chaneta) as chairperson, died on Wednesday night at a hospital in Dar es Salaam. Reports had it that Anna, the wife and inspirational figure of the athletics legend, Filbert Bayi, died of an illness at Hindu Mandal Hospital on Wednesday evening where she was undergoing treatment, but no further details were given until yesterday from a family. She served as Chaneta chairperson from 2009 to 2013 before she handed over the baton to Anna Kibira constitutionally. Kibira died in September last year. Anna will be remembered for her immense contribution in netball development in the country. She also strengthened the cooperation between Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. She also worked hard to seek funding for the development of the sport, especially at grassroots levels. During her tenure, Tanzania hosted a number of international competitions that promoted Tanzania into International Federation of Netball Associations (IFNA) rankings. Anna’s death is a big blow to sports fraternity, her husband, Bayi, their four children, other members of the family, relative and friends. She was also Filbert Bayi’s Schools Director and used her resources (Filbert Bayi Multi-sports complex) at Mkuza in Kibaha District to host sports competitions and courses attended by sports officials, players from different sporting events. Daily News tried, but to no avail to reach Bayi for more details concerning the death of his wife. It was also undisclosed as to where and when she will be buried. She hails from Pare District in Kilimanjaro region. The two tied the knot in the 1970’s. Filbert Bayi is Tanzania’s 1500m legend who in 1974 made international headlines when he won the Commonwealth 1500m title in the World record time to be considered as one of the greatest runners. He beat New Zealand’s John Walker and Ben Jipcho of Kenya to win the event’s gold medal.