SIMBA have cherished the year 2020 saying it was a blessing to them as they successfully reaped from the seeds they sow no wonder they triumphed to clinch three titles which helped to decorate their cupboard. Undoubtedly, the defending champions had a good performance in the just ended year basing on the level of effort they put in most of the competitions they contested. However, reminiscing on the remarkable achievements made by the club last year was the Information Officer Haji Manara who reiterated that it will be a memorable year for them. “The calender of January to December last year enabled us to win three titles and we also played in the Mapinduzi Cup finals. We also succeed to beat our traditional rivals Young Africans by four goals which was the sweetest part of our championship,” Manara said. He added that to spice up how beautiful last year was to them, they managed to produce the Premier League top goal scorer, best goalkeeper plus MVP among others. “Even though we were prematurely eliminated in the CAF Champions League (CAF CL), but everything in the domestic competitions went to our side as such, I can confidently say that 2020 was great to us,” Manara noted. He, however, pointed one of the challenges they faced as delays to successfully implement various stages needed for the transformation of the club. “I believe that the calendar of this year from January to December, the issue of club transformation will progress well since we still have ample time to achieve that,” narrated him. Simba are on the ground preparing for their return leg CAF CL match against FC Platinum scheduled on Wednesday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam of which they are compelled to win at all cost to get passport into the group stages of the hot contest. They suffered a 1-0 loss in the first leg tie in Zimbabwe as such, it is the opportunity for them to turn the tables upside down and cruise into the last 16 where they can play their matches without pressure. The game will therefore be tricky for the Belgian coach Sven Vandenbroeck who has been tasked to take Simba as far as the semifinals of the continent’s biggest club football showpiece. If he achieves that, he will erase the current record stamped by predecessor Patrick Aussems who took them into the quarterfinals of the contest in 2018.