MORE than 400 girls have completed training in an alternative rite of passage at a Tarime based Association of Termination of Female Genital Mutilation (ATFGM Masanga) Centre. Speaking during their graduation ceremony at Masanga Primary School in Mara region, recently the girls asked the government to keep on protecting them against forced FGM and other injustices like child marriage. By so doing, the girls said they will be able to achieve their educational dreams, and thanked partners supporting the ongoing initiative through ATFGM Masanga. The partners included Terre des Homes, Daughters of Charity, Kindermissionswerk and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). “We are very thankful to ATFGM Masanga for giving us education on the effects of FGM and apart from that… they also support us to get education,” one of the girls, identified as Lilian Chacha said. The young girl added: “I am now a modern girl and I am going to be good ambassador of anti-FGM campaigns in my home village.” Lilian was supported by Lidya Chacha, who received a similar training at ATFGM –Masanga training in 2008, adding: “My colleagues and I are now ambassadors of anti-FGM campaigns and our efforts have also helped to increase the number of girls now opting for alternative rite of passage at ATFGM –Masanga as you can see instead of undergoing FGM.” Speaking during the occasion, ATFGM Masanga Project Manager, Mr Valerian Mgani said, this was the 12th graduation ceremony to be hosted by the centre, since the initiative was started with the aim of saving the schoolgirls from the agony of FGM. “This is the 12th graduation ceremony for girls receiving the alternative rite of passage training at ATFGM Masanga and this time around we had a total of 473 girls,” Mr Mgani said. So far, ATFGM- Masanga has saved over 3,000 girls who were at risk of undergoing FGM in the region, according to Mr Mgani. However, Tarime District Commissioner (DC) Eng Mtemi Msafiri reassured the girls that they will remind safe and warned of stern legal measures against anyone who will attempt to subject them into the harmful culture. The DC, who was the guest of honour during the event also hinted that plans are underway to build a special secondary for girls, who shun FGM practice as part of the government’s efforts to encourage and inspire girls to study hard in the district.