HAVING recognized the importance of creating favorable environment for business communities from land linked nations to have options in selecting ports to use in Tanzania when exporting and importing goods, the government through the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) came up with a number of strategies to improve the performance of its terminals. Understandably, one of the strategies that received and is continuing to receive much attention is the expansion or construction of ports in strategic locations of the country to bring port services further closer to traders. If one makes a tour of all major ports that are either located on the coastline of Indian Ocean or Lakes, he/she will witness the ongoing massive expansion or construction works worth billions of shillings. It should be borne in mind that ports’ infrastructure improvement has been going simultaneously with equipping terminals with an array of machinery and equipment to handle a wide range of cargo, including making review of port charges. Placing security at the top of its priorities, TPA ensures that its workforce consists of a team of highly trained professionals in various fields that works around the clock to ensure that cargo entering and exiting its ports is in pristine condition and on time. In its resolve to cast business net wider, TPA came up with an affirmative action of opening Mtwara corridor, through which some traders from Southern African Development Community (SADC) can use in importing goods to their countries via Mtwara and Mbamba Bay ports. The decision to exploit Mtwara corridor in its services started by expanding Mtwara terminal which is destined to be an alternative cargo gateway for cargo bound for southern Tanzania, Malawi, Eastern Zambia and Northern Mozambique. Why expand Mtwara Port The expansion of Mtwara port focused on the construction of the new berth and the cargo yard. However, TPA’s future plan on the terminal is to have four berths. The TPA was prompted to build the new berth with a length of 300 metres and 13.5-metre depth (draft) to enable the terminal accommodate mega cargo ships weighing 65,000 tonnes. Before the construction of the new berth, the natural harbor had the capacity to accommodate cargo ships with 40,000 tonnes (Dead Weight –DWT) as the old berth was measuring 380 metres in length while its yard had the size of 40,000 square metres. The second yard constructed measures 79,000 square metres, creating more space for cargo. Therefore, the construction of the second berth with a length of 300 metres makes Mtwara Port to have a berth measuring 680 metres in length in total. The construction of the new multipurpose terminal was implemented through a joint venture of two Chinese firms- M/S China Railway Construction Engineering Group(CRCEG) and China Railway Major Bridge Engineering Group (CRMBEG) -at the tune of 137bn/-. All the necessary state -of -the art cargo handling equipment, including modern mobile cranes and other heavy lifting machines have already been availed at the port. Report from TPA officials state that the modern multipurpose cargo terminal will now be capable of delivering quality services to the southern regions – Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma, but with specific focus on serving neighboring countries in the southern African region- Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia. The terminal will increase its cargo handling capacity from 400,000 tonnes per annum to 1,000,000 tonnes. The construction of the second berth started in May 2017 under ‘Design and Build’ approach. Currently, Mtwara Port plays a significant role in ferrying cashew nuts abroad, including Vietnam. Cashew nuts, which is the cash earning crop for the southerners, is one of the dependable forex earner for the country. Cement produced at Dangote Cement Plant has been reaching markets in Comoro, Zanzibar and some parts in SADC region through Mtwara Port. A fertilizer plant to be established in Lindi will also depend on the port for the product to reach markets in some parts in the southern region and beyond. It should also be understood that the Port now plays an integral role in contributing to the country’s economic growth, as mega oil tankers are now anchoring at the gateway to deliver fuel cargo for the country’s southern regions of Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma. According to TPA officials, arrangements are now being made by the government so that the port could start receiving transit oil for the southern countries of Mozambique, Malawi and, if possible, Zambia. It would be recalled that earlier on, TPA had contracted M/S Endress + Hauser Company from Switzerland and a local company-BQ Contractors -to build and install a flow meter at the port to enable TPA establish the exact amount of fuel discharged at the terminal. The same two companies were contracted to build and install the flow meters at Tanga and Dar es Salaam ports. Currently, Tanzania delivers fuel to the southern regions through Mtwara port, a decision that has helped avail oil to the southerners at a comparatively low price compared to the past when fuel was discharged at Dar es Salaam Port and transported to the region overland. Mtwara Port was included in what can simply be termed as the international maritime security system (ISPS Code Compliance) in 2013, a system that compels the port to conform to international maritime security laws and regulations. Furthermore, Mtwara Port also uses an Integrated Security System, all of which have contributed in making it one of the most secure gateways along the Indian Ocean shoreline. The Mtwara Port was built during the British colonial times in the city of Mtwara in southern Tanzania. The harbor at the Port of Mtwara was deepened during the colonial times by the British in 1948-1954. Why the terminal is ideal for some SADC traders Traditionally, importers of goods into some parts of SADC countries have been preferring the principal port of Dar es Salaam to the rest.But with the expansion of Mtwara Port, importers now can have an alternative terminal which serves them more profitably in terms of time and transport cost. Geographically, using Mtwara Port proves beneficial to traders as the cargo bound for the southern parts of the country and the neighboring SADC countries can now be transported from Mtwara through Masasi-Tunduru-Namtumbo- Songea - Mbinga road up to Mbambay Bay Port. In the same quest to open up Mtwara corridor, the government built the road (Mtwara-Masasi-Tunduru- Namtumbo-Songea- Mbinga – Mbamba Bay) to provide for an alternative route for cargo haulage instead of depending on the long route that stretches from Dar es Salaam to Songea, Tunduma or Kasumulu border. This means that cargo destined for Malawi and some parts of Mozambique can be imported through Mtwara port before being hauled by trucks through Masasi-Tunduru- Namtumbo-Songea- Mbinga road up to Mbamba Bay Port where ships can ferry it to the final destinations. In this respect, when speaking about the plan by TPA to fully open and exploit the southern corridor potential, the importance of Mbamba Bay Port must not be underestimated. Due to the terminal’s importance, TPA made a decision to give it a facelift by renovating it. Previously, Mbamba Bay Port, which is a strategic gate way to Malawi and Mozambique in the southern transport corridor, failed to realize its potential due to absence of ships to operate on Lake Nyasa and poor road infrastructures that link Mbinga district and Nyasa area where the terminal is located. To keep Mbamba Bay Port and other terminals in Lake Nyasa busy, the government through Marine Services Company Limited (MSCL) built three ships- two cargo ships and Mbeya II ship, which is a modern multipurpose ship to tap business potential.