INVESTORS at Zanzibar’s Prison Island were on Tuesday given two months to improve infrastructure and services at the otherwise spectacular tourist site or risk stern legal measures by the government. Tourism and Heritage Minister Lela Muhamed Mussa, speaking during her half-day tour of the hot tourist spot, decried the appalling state of infrastructure at the famous islet, which is home to the tourist’s appealing giant land tortoises. “The government has rented you this island but that doesn’t mean you have to behave as you wish,” charged the minister, adding: “I had actually come here to revoke your business licence but because I have seen some works, I’m giving you the last chance.” Ms Lela accused the investors of ignoring the ministry’s previous directives to improve infrastructures at one of the most attractive areas to tourists visiting Zanzibar. “We had given you this project to develop it; not to restrain its prosperity,” fumed the minister, charging that neatness and safety to visitors should be the top priority. “Our Prison Island must be massively improved and its tourism services fully restored...we have to change; we cannot continue this way,” directed Minister Lela, reminding that island tourism is the country’s top priority. She added: “The government has trusted you with this sensitive project; let’s be serious and ensure that we meet the expectations of our visitors.” Project Officer with Zanzibar Commission for Tourism Ramadhan Mohamed Rifai challenged the investors to explore more tourist attractions instead of relying solely on tortoises. He proposed improvement of the natural swimming pool in the islet to attract and hook more domestic and foreign visitors. “Prison Island is a huge brand whose image should be reflected in its services,” Mr Rifai challenged the investors. Hotels and Lodges Tanzania Limited’s Prison Island Project Supervisor Sheikhan Mohamed Sheikhan apologised for the anomalies, promising to rectify the situation within the minister’s prescribed period. “Huge transformations are coming; we are determined to restore the international reputation of this place,” said Mr Sheikhan, boasting of many awards that the Islet has been receiving for the past 18 years, thanks to its exemplary services. The home of giant land tortoises, Prison Island has a beautiful beach, clean water, and fascinating history as a yellow fever quarantine station. One of Zanzibar’s never miss tourist spot, with 186 adult tortoises, receives 400 visitors daily on average, according to Mr Sheikhan.