RUMBLE in Dar boxing marathon has received a massive boost from high calibre firms; Tanzania Tourist Board and CRDB Bank who joined it as backers this week. The firms have poured their support as the Rumble in Dar Heads for a maiden take off at the Next Door Arena in Dar es Salaam this Friday. Organised by Jackson Group Sports, Rumble in Dar will soon become an international level boxing festival that draws top pugilists from all over the globe. The organiser also announced a partnership with Global Boxing Stars (GBS) besides the newly unveiled Tanzania Tourism Board and CRDB Bank for the Rumble in Dar. Early this month Jackson Group Sports announced a long-term partnership with Global Boxing Star, a firm that seeks to develop a new commercial model for Pan African boxing and unlock value through pooling of GBS networks, resources and operational capacity. “Today, we Jackson Group Sports are honoured to announce a new partnership with Tanzania Tourist Board as a key partner in promoting our country’s tourist destinations. TTB’s partnership comes with a focus to promote our countries tourist destinations through broadcast promotion for all six lined up boxing events for 2021,” said Kelvin Twissa, the founder of Jackson Group. Speaking on the joint venture, TTB official said the board values boxing and sports as among the biggest promoters of tourism. “We at TTB see the upcoming boxing events as a good platform to promote our country, as they will be watched live in over 150 countries. As an institution we are focused in promoting destination Tanzania, partnering with Jackson Group Sports will allow us to strategically market Tanzania tourism through sports. TTB will ensure to bring to viewers an experience of our unforgettable Tanzania which we believe will drive more tourists to visit our beautiful country. Today we bear witness with the presence of GBS Director, the President of WBF and international boxers who have come to fight. They will all have an experience of our country during their stay here,” said Mindi Kasiga, TTB Marketing Director. Furthermore, CRDB bank joins as the official banking partner of the event. “As a bank we are always keen to engage in strategic sports that uplift local talent. Last year we sponsored the biggest basketball event bringing together talent from across our country,” said CRDB Brand Manager Joe Bendera. “For the upcoming bout we will be broadcasting live on Azam Sports which has the largest sports viewership in Sub Saharan Africa. Through the GBS partnership, we are able to broadcast the bout to over 50 countries across the globe." Rumble in Dar boxing festival will be brightly coloured starting with curtain risers and main card Intercontinental Super lightweight between Ibrahim Class from Tanzania and Dennis Mwale from Malawi.