THE Tanzania Association of the Disabled (CHAWATA) has raised several issues for the government’s attention to promote their welfare. Among issues being raised include subsidies, friendly infrastructure, access to free health services, slotting of positions, tax exemption and employment. Chawata National Chairman, Mr Hamadi Komboza observed during an exclusive interview with the Daily News, calling upon the government to reinstate subsidies previously offered to support the operations of people with disabilities (PWDs) associations. “For some years now the government has stopped dishing out subsidies to our associations, something which has crippled most of the operations countrywide because the available sources cannot meet the demand,” said Mr Komboza. He pointed out that the situation has turned their associations into beggars, looking out to different stakeholders and donors for support. Besides, the faction is calling upon the government to exempt taxes for important tools and equipment, like walking sticks and brail machines among others used by PWDs. According to the Chairman, the special gadgets and equipment are not used for show but to support the day to day movement and activities of people in the group. Mr Komboza asserted that they have been failing to access the crucial tools due to heavy prices which are not affordable, thus majority have relied on support from donors and other stakeholders. “We request the government to intervene by waiving taxes for the gadgets so that they can be affordable, and if possible they can be offered free of charge to members as per their needs,” he said. Although the law requires for all public places/buildings to be accessible to all people with different disabilities, he hinted that some buildings do not meet the requirement, making it difficult for the group to access important services offered in such offices. He called upon the government to intervene in the matter by directing the administration to implement the requirement so that PWDs can benefit from services offered in such places like ordinary people. Equally, the Chairman requested the government to keenly look at the issue of employment for PWDs as stipulated in the law. “The law seeks employers with the work force of 20 and above to hire persons with disabilities based on a quota system and to ensure that 3 per cent of the entire population in their offices should account for the group,” noted the Chairman. He added that “it is clear that the requirement has not been realised in most of the offices…we request the government to look into the matter.” He went on to reveal that the group has well educated people who have not been employed due to stereotypes that believe that people with disabilities cannot perform certain tasks like ordinary people. Based on the perception, most of the PWDs certificates are rotting in their wardrobes because they cannot secure jobs. Mr Komboza extended recognition to President John Magufuli for appointing people with disabilities to senior positions, calling on him to maintain the good spirit of slotting more in other top posts. Besides, the Chairman reminded the current administration to execute all their recommendations incorporated in the presiding party manifesto for better lives and well-being.