ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has challenged youths to take up their role seriously, to campaign and fight against malpractices plaguing society. Dr Mwinyi said corruption practices, drug abuse and sexual offences linked to decline in morals and values could end should the youth take up their role seriously. “Don’t get involved in narcotic drugs, corruption and abuse of children and women. If you shun these practices and also take a role in prevention by discouraging and educating your peer group and the public, we can make Zanzibar a good place for everyone to live in,” said Dr Mwinyi. He delivered this message at Mao Dze Dung Stadium in Zanzibar, at the climax of the ‘Mapinduzi Walk’ organised by the ruling CCM Youth wing (UVCCM), as part of activities to mark the 57th anniversary of the 1964 Zanzibar Revolution. He said that decline in morals and values have led to many social menaces and that youth involvement in such vices should stop, insisting the government will always work to find ways to solve the unemployment burden facing many youths in the country. Dr Mwinyi commended about 750 youths for walking more than ‘700’ kilometres in total to celebrate the annual Mapinduzi Day climaxing tomorrow, saying the young people have expressed their support to the government and enhance the revolution. The president accepted the youths’ request to support their ‘work incubation and vocational centre’ at Tunguu in Unguja South, so that more youths can be trained/empowered for self-employment in efforts to address lack of jobs burden. “We have also to review our job recruitment regulations, to pave the way for equality for job seekers. We understand there are some young people who can make good leaders but cannot be employed due to regulations,” the president said as he also promised to boost the ‘empowerment fund’ to provide more soft loans to youths for start-up businesses. At the function also attended by the Union Vice- President Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, Isles Second Vice-President Hemed Suleiman Abdalla, CCM Deputy Secretary General –Zanzibar Dr Abdalla Juma Saadala ‘Mabodi’, President Mwinyi recalled that he promised, during elections campaign, to create at least 300,000 jobs and that he is on track to fulfill the promise. “I urge all youth not to select jobs or make job preference once there is opportunity for employment, and also avoid laziness. We want all youth to get employed and engage in any income generating activities,” said Dr Mwinyi. UVCCM leaders: Mr Kheri James (Chairman), Ms Tabia Maulid Mwita (Vice Chairperson) and Mr Mussa Haji (Acting Secretary) lined-up at the colourful event to thank President Mwinyi, Mama Samia, and other government leaders for their parenting role for the youth. Ms Tabia, who is also the current Minister for Information, Youth, Culture, and Sports said the ‘Mapinduzi Walk’ which started from Pwani-Mchangani coastal village in the Unguja North also included youth participation in development programmes on the way or stop overs, such as environment cleaning at Kinyasini Market, school construction, and other social work.