LIONS Cricket Club had a bright start to the DC Gymkhana Cup title after beating Marylebone Cricket Club by 79 runs in a T-20 match at Dar Gymkhana oval, Dar es Salaam, yesterday. The hefty victory has placed them at the top of the Group D standings with two points and 3.95 average net run rate. Their opponents; Marylebone have now settled at the second place of the log without any point but with inferior -3.95 net run rate. Other members of the group D; Tamil Nadu Sports Club, General Petroleum and Dar Gymkhana have not yet played their openers. At the oval, Marylebone won the toss and elected to bowl. In the innings Lions posted 133 runs all earned in seven of the twenty overs. As Marylebone stepped into bat they failed to register enough runs as they were all out after posting 54 runs. Rijali Fenty of Lions CC was named the game’s MVP after collecting 44 runs and one wicket. Other than Rijali’s outstanding performance, Gulraiz Haideri, Abubakar Selemani, Jithin Mohan and Atif Salim also played well for the winners. For instance Gulraiz and Abubakar collected three wickets each; Jithin claimed two wickets while Atif managed to post 30 runs and one wicket. Despite the fact that it was raining, it did not stop the boys from displaying their skills in the game. The T-20 competition commenced last Sunday, where six clubs stepped in the oval. In the opening matches, Agha Khan, Dar Cricket Club and K&P Construction won their matches. Agha Khan defeated Strikers by 67 runs and took a command of Group A with two points and 3.35 net run rates. Strikers are second with -3.35 but without any point. In Group B, Dar Cricket Club lead after beating Unisoft by 46 runs. Their victory gave them two points and 2.30 run rate while their Sunday opponents Unisoft Rising Stars are second without a point but have -2.30 average net run rates. K&P Construction have claimed Group C helm with two points and 2.10 run rate while their opponents Dar Gymkhana are second without a point but have -2.10 average net run rates.