FINALLY we have crossed the river and arrived to the shore, full of hope and optimism believing that at least this year will bring better results than the previous one. Everyone should be encouraged to be positive because there is no gain in being a defeatist. Many people wished year 2020 could be removed from the calendar. Reason? Covid-19. From the humanity sake, they are pretty right, Coronavirus brought with it perilous impacts in all areas of our lives semblance of which has never been seen at least in the recent epoch. The world economy shrank by 5.2 per cent with per capita income contracting in the largest fraction of countries since 1870 while a number of people with acute food insecurity rose by 81 per cent in less than one year. This is not to mention of the fact that more than 1.8 million people have already died, families and societies losing their loved ones. Now that we are in the year 2021 – a year painted by many as a more hopeful one or at least better than last year – it is critical that we take some retreat and zoom in on two matters pertinent which are with the progress agriculture performance as a whole. Logistics Transporting agricultural crops from up country to major cities is still a serious problem. For years, major crops have been reaching several markets in the country through roadways. Needless to say that this way have proven costly, less efficient and unpredictable. Efforts are underway though to build a Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Dar Es Salaam to regions located in the central corridor. Nonetheless, to wait that until it gets completed and maybe take a ‘little slumber’ until that railway takes the Northern and Southern route, will take a generation. Thus short term plans ought to be preserved to serve the day much as long term plans need to be taken in the highest regard as well. And if there is any low hanging fruit on the matter, then it should be properly coordinating of the existing transportation means – vehicles moving through roadways and the existing dilapidated railway system. Experience shows that if there could be creatively installed coordinating system that would be sharing information between logistic companies and prospective clients on real time basis. This, not only would save tracks from running empty containers to and from the cities, but also would cheapen the transportation costs as normally that would increase the logistics companies’ economies of scale and so charge lower prices. While private companies as well as public entities can indeed venture in to this, my preference will be to see private entities take the leading role while leaving public entities doing their regulating functions which can hardly be outsourced. Beyond processing sector, let’s expand our ecosystem Processing sector is a nascent one in the country, albeit not in all the value chains. Crops like maize and rice are locally processed not by big players but small and medium players. Heavy milling machines are highly spread in the entire country most especially in the producing areas leaving very few of them in the cities because normally commodities arrive there while are already milled. This tells a lot more than a mere statistical coverage. It speaks volume on who exactly owns the agricultural economy and if at all an economy is concentrated on the hands of a few, that might be a story for another day. However, many people are asking why so much of our maize going to Kenya are crossing more in that form than in its final state – flour. Well, all processing activities, like so many others in the value chain, depends on that crop’s ecosystem, in that, who is going to consume the product and by-product produced so far? Consumers have a very huge influence in deciding the trading pattern. In the case of maize, flour is a product and maize husk and bran is a byproduct that can be used as animal feed and the like. For maize process to thrive, there should be a good number of livestock keepers to buy those ‘wastes’. So maize becomes more expensive on the Kenyan side leading into attracting more supply, partly because maize’s significance doesn’t end up with flour – the presence of husks and bran makes a product more expensive. The same explains why as a country we don’t have processing machines for sesame seeds. Someone has to be somewhere to take those husks or else no one will be interested to work on an enterprise that has low return on investment. Therefore if we are to boost our products’ price this year then, lest be fixated on one area alone, we have to expand livestock keeping and some other related sectors as well.