NMB Bank Plc has recorded a 50-percent increase in the number of customers using digital banking platforms following the bank’s campaigns dubbed ‘MastaBata Sio Kikawaida’ and ‘NMB Friday’ which allow customers to win prizes. Speaking during the weekly draw to award winners on Tuesday, NMB Senior Manager Cards Operations and Finance Lupia Matta said the two campaigns have been the source of about 50-percent of the bank’s customers using e-commerce. “We have witnessed a 50-percent increase in new customers who are now getting used to using NMB MasterCard when paying for goods or services through Point of Sales (POS), QR Code or Internet purchase,” she said. The campaign is aimed at encouraging and motivating customers to use NMB MasterCard when paying for goods or services through Point of Sales (POS), QR Code or Internet purchase commonly known as E-commerce and it runs for three months. During the draw, 40 customers walked away with a 100,000/- each as awards for using the platforms. He said the NMB Friday draw offers a 15-percent discount to prices for sellers who are the bank’s business partners countrywide. More than 200m/- worth prizes are to be won in the three month’s promotion which includes customers paying using NMB Mastercard QR as part of this rewarding program. In the three months of the promotion, there will be weekly draws that will see 40 lucky winners every week walk away with 100,000/- each, monthly winners where 12 lucky customers will be walking away with brand new Samsung Galaxy Note 20 phones. The grand finale will witness 12 customers win an all-inclusive trip for two to Serengeti, Ngorongoro or Zanzibar. Winners of the trip can choose to be accompanied by their spouses or friends and the trips will be fully paid by NMB Bank for 3 days stay in a five-star Hotel. The same winners’ will also be given an option of deciding between the Safari or a range of prizes from Smart TV set to fridges. NMB Bank is the first bank in Tanzania to issue a secured EMV (Chip and Pin) MasterCard with contactless technology and pioneered the largest roll out of contactless MasterCard payment cards in Tanzania to date. Contactless technology allows consumers to make fast, secure and more convenient payments, and is ideal for quick payment environments where speed and convenience matter most such as taxis, buses, major retailers, grocery stores and fuel stations.