THIS has to be told. As I am writing this, I have just been moved from the Intensive Care Unit and I am now recuperating in a normal Ward here in Manzese Medical Hospital, after being unconscious for two days. I was not involved in any recent road accident in this country, far from it, and I was not hit by a speeding vehicle as I was coming from Zakayo’s pub either. Because I believe that if that was the case, then my injuries would not have been this serious, because I know that within a few days I would have been allowed to return home. I was not attacked by Boko Haram either, and the Al Shabaab were not involved in any way or another in my current condition, don’t even contemplate a crazy bodaboda rider I always hire, was not there at the time of my predicament. My injuries were sustained from the hand of a single person, a person who can make the commandos in the US army turn green with envy…a person who can turn a grown man into a weeping child. Folks, when they wheeled me into the hospital that day, I was semi-conscious, but in my fogy state of mind, I could hear a female voice asking the ambulance driver whether the car which had knocked me was arrested and the driver charged. “Madam, it was not a case of hit and run, this poor man was thrashed by his wife,” I heard the man telling the nurse. Yes, people, mama Boyi was about to send me knocking on the Pearly Gates of heaven, where I was to be officially welcomed by Angel Peter and a host of other female angels. You see, I have always told you that the JWTZ are making a serious mistake by not recruiting the mother of my clan, because I strongly believe that she can single handedly deal with any enemy soldiers in a very professional way…….she is deadly in a hand to hand combat with her frying pan firmly in her hand. You see, with the changing times and technology, I recently decided that I should not be left behind after seeing most of my friends sliding their fingers on the screens of their phones, all in the name of ‘touch screens’ and smart phones. So I remembered that in my neighbourhood there is a character called Amos the X-ray, who got his name after people started believing that the fellow was blessed with eyes that have X-ray sense. The reason behind this is that Amos can smell money in any pocket, wallet or handbag from a mile away, and when it comes to phones, he can know you have a smart phone even before you take it out of your pocket. So I went looking for this character and I found him in a bar called Triple B (Babu Babua Bar) in Manzese, and I asked him Why Africa now in crosshairs of internal, external cyber attackers environments. Instead, it’s crucial to note that the attacks used on African targets are the same as seen elsewhere. The situation isn’t unique. Perhaps the higher prevalence of local attacks point to shortcomings in preparedness and technology investments, says Dean Steenkamp, Check Point Channel Manager at Westcon-Comstor sub-Saharan Africa: “The higher attack rates are in part because consumers and businesses don’t have the latest technologies with the best security on them, and secondly, because there is a lack of general awareness around security in less developed regions. Thirdly, because of the growing demand for digital and cloud-based services. The reality is that the security solutions do exist, but there is simply a lag in uptake.” Cost is a contributing factor. As an emerging economy, Africa often doesn’t have the disposable income to spend on constant technology refresh cycles. Numerous businesses rely on legacy on-premises environments that, in some instances, have passed their shelf-life. “When you are sitting on a large vault of legacy solutions that are difficult to upgrade and maintain – your security also suffers,” Steenkamp adds. Big targets Africa, of course, is not a country. Cyber-attacks don’t happen equally across its landscape. Countries like South Africa, Kenya, Nigeria and Angola receive much more attention from criminals, attracted to digital maturity, diverse industries and large corporate landscapes. In particular, South Africa is a big fish – according to Accenture, it has the third most cybercrime victims worldwide, losing R2.2 billion a year. But such economies are also more likely to invest in better security. “Digital maturity is definitely a factor, as is economic distribution and the size of the corporate landscape,” says Steenkamp. “Suppose we factor in economies like South Africa, where digital devices are exceptionally pervasive, but there is also a mature business economy. In that case, there is Africa is firmly in the crosshairs of cyber criminals. Every day, the continent’s people, countries and companies are targeted by internal and external attackers bent on stealing data and money. The scope of these activities is staggering and deserves closer attention. According to Check Point Research’s latest Threat Intelligence Report for Africa, the region saw an average of 1,293 weekly cyber-attacks on African companies, compared to just 485 attacks per organisation globally. “The most targeted country in Africa is Angola, and the top malware in Africa is Emotet, impacting 13 per cent of organisations,” says Pankaj Bhula, Regional Director for Africa at Check Point. “Perhaps more critically is that 87 per cent of malicious files in Africa are delivered via e-mail, which lets us believe that there is still a fair amount of education that organisations need to do to improve their security defences. A common method used by cyber criminals is sending remote code execution files, with the report showing that over 61 per cent of organisations have fallen prey to this type of attack.” A favourite target Why is Africa such a favoured target? It’s tempting to point to the continent’s incredibly high mobile-phone penetration, though experts note that most of these are feature phones and thus not really a cybercrime interest. Instead, attacks on smart devices in Africa are comparable in type and numbers to other regions, despite a much higher user number. This indicates that the average person in the street often doesn’t interact with the staging areas criminals could use, such as compromised app stores or mobile device management On January 1, 2021, the African Union launched the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), the world’s biggest free trade area and Africa’s most ambitious and recent effort to liberalize trade. The World Economic Forum’s Connecting Countries and Cities for Regional Value Chain Integration – Operationalising AfCFTA released on January 28 analyses the impact that Covid-19 has had on Africa’s supply chains. Developed by the World Economic Forum’s Regional Action Group for Africa in partnership with Deloitte, the report provides policy advice for accelerating the expansion of regional value chains in emerging manufacturing economies such as the automotive industry. The paper is part of a series investigating five ways to drive economic recovery and build resilience in the context of the AfCFTA Agreement, namely: • New financing models for rapid recovery • Unlocking manufacturing to mitigate global supply chain (by 2 points). The pandemic has accelerated systemic changes that were apparent before its inception. The fault lines that emerged in 2020 now appear as critical crossroads in 2021. The Davos Agenda will help leaders choose innovative and bold solutions to stem the pandemic and drive a robust recovery over the next year. In regards to the Davos Agenda, Professor Klaus Schwab, Founder and Executive Chairman of the World Economic Forum said: “In the context of the Covid19 pandemic, the need to reset priorities and the urgency to reform systems have been growing stronger around the world. Rebuilding trust and increasing global cooperation are crucial to fostering innovative and bold solutions to stem the pandemic and drive a robust recovery. This unique meeting will be an opportunity for leaders to outline their vision and address the most important issues of our time, such as the need to accelerate job creation and to protect the environment.” Modern Diplomacy if he can get a good smart phone for me at a good price, and he looked at me with his blood shot eyes as if I had insulted him, his mother and his entire clan. “Baba Boyi, you are insulting my intelligence, and it is only because I respect you that is why I will not demand for an official apology from you,” he said, with a face which made me believe that he might break into tears any minute. He asked about my budget, and as always, I told him anything cheap will do, and insisted that the phone, stolen or borrowed, should be clean (not traceable). He looked at me as if I was the biggest fool walking on the face of the earth, before he pulled me to an empty table at the corner. Throwing furtive looks in all directions, he pulled nearly six phones from his pockets. I bought one which showed some class, and gave him 50,000/- for his efforts, but not before he gave me a crash course on how to operate it, including how to create a security system. These phones come with different modes of security, with some giving an option of numbers, letters or patterns….I chose the pattern, and after practicing for a few minutes, I had a security code which required your finger to move around the screen in a pattern that resembled the map of Manzese. When I appeared with the phone at home that evening, my wife questioned why I needed to put a password on it after she tried to access it, and I responded to the effect that nowadays smart phones cannot operate effectively without a password. nyway, after several days, what I did not realize then was that mama Boyi had been watching my finger patiently every time I unlocked my phone, and recently when I came back from Zakayo’s Pub, I went to sleep and left the phone charging. The mother of my clan, after making sure that I was in dream land, took the phone, and after a few attempts, she managed to unlock it, and the first message she came across was from Shariffa, the counter lady at Zakayo’s. ‘Nimemuona mkeo leo, please uwe makini asije leta vurugu ukija’ which roughly means ‘I saw your wife today, please be careful when you come over in case she starts a holy war’. The first strike of the frying pan woke me up, the second one made me extremely dizzy, and the third one I lost consciousness.