TANZANIA has always held high the banner of peace, development and diplomatic relations, which earns the country’s image much respect at the international community. In fact, the country has continued to significantly gain respect at the international stage, basing on President John Magufuli’s resolute stance on various matters related to international relations and economic transformation of the country. This was said by the Government Chief Spokesperson, Dr Hassan Abbasi during a press conference in Dodoma on Sunday. “Tanzania's image has been trending well internationally and with the vast socio-economic changes under the Fifth Phase Government, the image will continue to shine even further,” said Dr Abbasi. He said the country’s diplomacy has also skyrocketed, saying Tanzania is always determined to achieve win-win cooperation and common development with all countries across the globe. He further said that President Magufuli’s stance in a number of issues has made him one among the top and exemplary leaders in Africa. “It is for President John Magufuli’s outstanding performance he was ranked second African Political Leader of the Year 2020 among 54 African Presidents, during the recent report published by the England-based Africa Leadership Magazine,” insisted the Chief Government Spokesperson. Dr Abbasi, who is also the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, said in the face of ever-emerging global challenges, Tanzania believes that solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapon of the international community, as proven by a number of visits of various leaders into the country. “A series of official and state visits by a number of presidents and dignitaries in the country is a clear indication that diplomatic relations and ties are being strengthened every now and then,” he said. Last month, Tanzania received the President of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Sahle-Work Zewde, Mozambique President Filipe Nyusi, as well as the Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister, Wang Yi. On the implementation of strategic projects, Dr Abbasi said they will all be completed as per scheduled time within the five years. He said the construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), which will cost more than 7tri/-, was progressing well. “In fact, for the Dar es Salam-Morogoro 300-km stretch, the job has reached more than 90 per cent, while the Morogoro-Makutupora, Singida (km 422) stretch the work has been complete by 55 per cent,” he said. Moreover, he said, between July and December last year, the government disbursed 274.2bn/- for the two SGR projects implementation, while, Mwanza to Isaka construction agreement was signed on January 8th, this year. On the progress of Julius Nyerere Hydro power, Dr Abbasi said the work has reached 30 per cent whereas the diversion tunnel is complete as the contractors are now working on the cofferdams construction ahead of the main dam task. He said a total of 274.1bn/- has been issued between July and December last year for the project. On power distribution, Dr Abbasi said a good work has been done through the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) project as 10,018 out of 12,317 villages countrywide have power and the remaining will be connected by June this year. “It is also important to remind everyone that the election is over, and President Magufuli has conducted various visit to several regions, where he inaugurated a number of development projects including a mega 600bn/- water project from Lake Victoria to Tabora,” he said.