THE Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has lost his appeal to challenge the acquittal of two businessmen charged with counts relating to the distribution and sale of maize seeds that are not up to the standard of germination and purity in Sumbawanga Municipal Council. This follows the decision of the High Court in Sumbawanga to dismiss the appeal under which the DPP, the appellant, had lodged to challenge the acquittal of the businessmen by Sumbawanga District Court, who are senior officials with a producer and supplier of premium quality Seed Company. Judge Cyprian Mkeha ruled in favour of Zakayo Owenya and Torio Kavaito, who are General Manager and Southern Highlands Zonal Manager of Pannar Seed (Tanzania) Limited, a company of the Pannar Group, respectively, who were respondents in the appeal. “I uphold the trial court’s findings that the two respondents are not guilty. The appeal stands dismissed for want of merit,” the judge declared. During hearing of the appeal, the appellant’s counsel had contended that the trial district court had erred in law and facts to find that the respondents not guilty while the prosecution evidence on the record was tangible and sufficient to convict them, thus proved the offences beyond a reasonable doubt. However, counsel for the respondents replied that the charge sheet laid against his clients was fatally defective because of duplicity, hence, the same could not rightly lead to their conviction. According to him, Owenya was charged with three distinct counts of the importation, distribution and sale of seeds not conforming to the standard of germination and purity, while Kavaito was charged with two distinct offences of the distribution and sale of seeds not conforming to the standard. In his deliberation on the matter, the judge noted that there was no denial that under the relevant law, importation, distribution and sale are treated as distinct offences. “Therefore, for charging the offences (in one) count, the charge was indeed bad for duplicity,” he said. Judge Mkeha referred to a case, whose decision was delivered on October 19, 2020 by the Court of Appeal, which held that when a charge was contained in two separate offences in one count was said to be duplex and the ailment was not curable. In the case, he said, the court proceeded to order release of the appellant as the ailment on the charge was not curable and that no order for remission of the file could have been given because the charge was fatally defective. In 2015, being General Manager of Pannar Seed (Tanzania) Limited, Owenya allegedly imported and distributed in Sumbawanga Municipal Council and sold a half-tonne of maize Pannar 691 type to Msipazi Farm Limited at 2,760,000/- which did not conform to the standard of germination and purity. As Southern Highlands Zonal Manager of the company of Pannar Group, Kavaito was also charged with distributing in the municipal council and sold the same type of seeds to Msipazi Farm Ltd, which did not conform to the standard of germination and purity and other prescribed requirements.