l WONDER if it is a must that we must all come up with new resolutions every time we see a new year, because for some of us, we are still working on last year's resolutions. There are people, including the mother of my small clan, who still believes that every year you must come up with some sort of new resolutions, and she has been working on that ever since l met her, and woe unto you if you try to defy this flow. Last year l made numerous resolutions, and all l can say is that l am yet to accomplish them, because so far l am not even half way there, and we are already in yet another year. This year my mind is still trying to figure out what resolutions l made last year, and it becomes an uphill task when you consider that you made most of your resolutions when your mind was swimming in some frothy Ilala liquids served very cold. Life is short, this is what l always tell mama Boyi, the mother of my small clan, therefore we should not take it that seriously, but that comment almost earned me a hard knock on my bald head. As the month of January is chugging past half way, l have so far tried to make some new resolutions as much as possible, and l have noticed that my wife is already in firm possession of her list of her new resolutions, and she has been eagerly waiting to hear mine. Last week she finally realized that l was in no particular hurry to line up my resolutions, so her only way was to force me to come up with some, not caring whether l will keep them or not. You see, just after the new year celebrations, l turned up in the office with a very nasty hangover, courtesy of some fine partying at the expense of a certain 'mzungu' who was returning back to his homeland after working in the country for five years. This mzungu fellow decided that since Tanzania has been kind to him, it was only fair for him to return the favor and bid the country farewell in a grand style, and to be honest, I congratulate that fellow from the land of the queen, because he made sure there was enough frothy liquid to float a small boat. He invited us to his apartment, and together with Jatello, we presented our parched throats early enough before other swallowers could put a dent on the number of crates. We drank ourselves silly, and by the time l dragged myself home, all the cocks had finished making the usual noise in their efforts to remind people that it was a brand new day. l took a quick shower and went straight to the office, and judging by the looks l received, l was sure that the fumes l was emitting were enough to power a nuclear reactor. l was dozing peacefully on my desk, being a bother to no one, when my sleep was unceremoniously interrupted by a violent shake, and forcing my eyes to open, l came face to face with the boss. His eyes were clear indication that if there were no witnesses, he would have murdered me using his bare hands right there and then, and l could swear I saw clouds of smoke coming out of his nose. "Now l hope you are not going to insult my intelligence and lie to me that you are sick, like you did four days ago, because the smell coming from you is responsible for making other employees feel drowsy!" he said, and the voice was not friendly either. He told me to go back home and sleep it off, because l was a disgrace to the company. l felt like thanking him but l knew that it would be pushing it too far. In half an hour l was in my neighbourhood, and l would have gone straight home, but for the fact that as l was passing Zakayo's Pub, l thought I heard someone calling my name from inside. l parked the collection of metal that was my car and sauntered in, where l found Jatello and Oscar the Hawker, and the number of bottles on their table would have made members of a certain ethnic tribe go green with envy. l swear l wanted to leave immediately and go home, but before any words could come out of my mouth, several very cold, sweaty bottles landed in front of me, and since l never say no to a cold one, l had no option but to do justice to them. l still believe there is a nosy neighbour who spotted me, and because in uswahilini people believe that it is their birth right to interfere in everyone's business, that nosy fellow, whoever it was, went and told mama Boyi. Before l knew it, the mother of my clan was standing right next to me, and in her hands she was holding her favorite weapon, the greasy frying pan. l tried to explain to her the reason why l was there at a time when I was supposed to be in the office, but she did not want to hear any of it as she insisted that we should go home. "The year is already several days old, and you are just there drinking as if you are dying tomorrow, and you have not even made your resolutions yet, this time l will not allow you to leave this house until you tell me your new year's resolution!" she told me when we reached home. l told her that l have a very healthy list of my new year resolutions, and l would have told her too had l not switched off and fell into a serious slumber.