THE visit of Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi to Tanzania is the continuation of unwavering China’s commitment to China-Tanzania relations. Chinese State Councillor Wang is on a one-week visit to the African Continent, including Tanzania. Mr Wang’s visit is the continuation of over 30 years of China’s tradition of its foreign ministers to visit and strengthen the traditional political cooperation with African countries. His visit comes at a crucial juncture in the history of Sino-Tanzania relations (and Sino-Africa cooperation in general) as the world still battles the Covid-19 pandemic. It should be noted that not many senior diplomats are currently paying in-person visits internationally, so his visit shows the importance and strength of the Sino-Tanzania friendship. Even with videoconferences, the Chinese government attaches such great importance to the Sino-Tanzania cooperation. Wang’s visit takes place less than a month after Chinese President Xi Jinping and President John Magufuli held a historic one-hour telephone conversation, exchanging views on various aspects of relations and cooperation between the two countries, particularly in economic matters. In their December 16, 2020 phone conversation, besides congratulating President Magufuli on his victory in the October general election, President Xi also acknowledged and commended the efforts of the fifth phase government of Tanzania in economic development and in particular the construction of strategic projects. President Xi not only promised that China would continue supporting Tanzania in its economic development efforts, but also said China was ready to assist Tanzania in completing the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and Mwalimu Nyerere Hydroelectric Power Station. It is anticipated that what the presidents discussed would be further reflected during Minister Wang’s visit. Despite the challenges brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic, trade between China and Tanzania had been booming. This can be demonstrated by the signing of an agreement between China and Tanzania to allow soybeans from Tanzania to enter the Chinese market, a great market opportunity for Tanzanian farmers and traders. Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, was also quoted recently, saying there had been online discussions between the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries and the Chinese authorities on the sale of Tanzania’s marine products to the Chinese market. It is also in the same period that the value of trade between China and Tanzania continued increasing and now has grown to more than $3.9bn. For three consecutive years now China has continued being Tanzania’s largest trading partner. President Xi Jinping himself has expressed his interest in encouraging Tanzanian products to enter the Chinese market. It should be noted that in 2019 when he went to open China International Import Exposition in Shanghai (CIIE-2019), he clearly showed interest in Tanzanian cashews, Tanzanite and other gemstones and had a brief conversation with Tanzanian Ambassador to China Mbelwa Kairuki and former Minister for Industry and Trade Innocent Bashungwa on the products introduced to the Chinese market. This is also the last year of the Beijing Action Plan 2019-2021 of the Forum for China-Africa Cooperation. The visit, besides looking at the gains made and the challenges encountered during the implementation period, will also highlight further implementation of the agreements reached at the 2018 Beijing China-Africa Cooperation Forum—especially those whose implementation was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and importantly the action plan for the economic recovery of Africa’s post Covid-19 pandemic. There has been already trade in agricultural products between China and Africa in a new direction, especially the use of e-commerce for crops such as tea and coffee. There are important and major cooperation initiatives that hope to find fresh impetus for this visit, including encouraging the joint construction of the “Belt and Road” initiative, the building of a China-Africa Community of a shared future and a new phase of the Focac conference.