OUT of the 94,582 expectant women, who attended clinic in Arusha Region in 2020, 12,540 of them were girls aged under 20 years, accounting for 13 per cent of the total figure. According to Arusha Regional Reproductive Health and Children Coordinator Belinda Mumbuli, 69,728 women, who had attended clinic, delivered well and from that number 7,725 of them were young women aged below 20 years, equivalent to 11 per cent of the total number. The regional health coordinator pointed out that there was an upsurge of child pregnancy, leading to premature pregnancies that caused reproductive health problems among the youth, including miscarriages, which threatened the nation whose population of about 60 million was made up of mostly the youth and children, accounting for 50 per cent of the total number. She said the youth also led in sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), where out of the 33,885 people who had STDs in the region, 2,505 of them were young people. As for HIV/Aids cases, she said out of 68,310 young people tested in the region 1,048 of them were found to be living with HIV/Aids. Ms Mumbuli was speaking during a special workshop organised for reporters in Arusha by JHPIEGO through a Challenge Initiative (TCI) programme dubbed 'Tupange Pamoja’ to raise the awareness of young people on the importance of reproductive health through media outlets and online platforms. For his part, the coordinator of mental health in Arusha Mr Charles Migunga said according to recent studies in the three districts of Meru, Arusha Urban and Arusha Rural, some primary school pupils and secondary students were using alcohol and marijuana. JHPIEGO Challenge Initiative Regional Coordinator Waziri Njau said there was a need for the community to be educated about reproductive health and youth position in society and “we feel the media, especially social platforms, is instrumental in disseminating this message.” "Nowadays, the youth are no longer trusted. Wherever they go people point an accusing finger at them, accusing them of all negative things. Most young people in the country lack health and reproductive education and, therefore, many of them indulge themselves in narcotic drugs, promiscuity and other life destructive lifestyles,” noted Njau. Shortened from the former Johns Hopkins Programme for International Education in Gynecology and Obstetrics, JHPIEGO is an international non-profit health organisation founded in 1973 and affiliated with Johns Hopkins University. TCI works with local governments in three East African countries of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania to scale up family planning and reach out to women and girls for voluntary family planning services.