RECENTLY, Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Innocent Bashungwa met journalists in Dar es Salaam for a talk whose theme centred on patriotism and how the scribes can use their pens to educate the public on how the government implements community projects. This is because journalists by nature of their profession educate the public about events and issues and how they affect their lives. They spend much of their time interviewing expert sources, searching public records and other sources for information, and sometimes visiting the scene where a crime or other newsworthy occurrence takes place. After they’ve thoroughly researched the subject, they use what they uncovered to write an article or create a piece for radio, television or the internet, which collectively dovetail to informing the public or bridging electorates and their leaders. With this background, it is the journalists as government stakeholders in development and fostering patriotism, who should first preach patriotism and write patriotic stories with the aim of uniting Tanzanians irrespective of one’s religion, political stance, and ethnic language or background, you name it. The act of patriotism and feeling patriotic are things which will make for a stronger nation. Not only will you be able to relate well to others in your shared love for this country but the more individuals who express their patriotic feelings, the stronger our country will be as a whole. For instance, everyone should remember that when pandemic Covid-19 was first reported in China, it was the media that alerted everyone and educated the public on steps to take to keep it at bay. Within a short time, like a bushfire, everyone as far as remote parts of the world had an idea of what the disease is and preventive measures. The same spirit and vigor should be taken by our media houses to educate and remind the public on the importance of patriotism. Because it is only those who are patriotic will do what is right for our nation in the way of supporting the government in efforts to make the country united and people live in peace or a combined group with a common goal. We should remember that a patriotic spirit is one of the fortitude and strength that made us fight the colonialists and gain our independence. Still with the same patriotism, Tanzania (being our home) will be the best place to live in, because collectively we shall unite to address challenges pack peddling our development.