BY the time you read this, the “Rumble in Dar” Boxing Event will have taken place at the Next Door Arena in Dar es Salaam, and winners and losers will have been known. If you were old enough in October 1974 you will relate the dubbing of yesterday’s event “the Rumble in Dar”, to the famous “Rumble in the Jungle” historic boxing contest pitting former heavyweight champion, 32 old Muhammad Ali (ne Cassius Clay), against 25 year old reigning champion, George Foreman. The fighting took place on October 30, 1974, at May 20, Stadium in Kinshasha Zaire, and was attended by 60,000 people. Foreman was defeated in the 8th round, making this a turning point in the history of Boxing and in the careers of both fighters, especially Muhammad Ali. The “Rumble in Dar” event was reported upon in the Custodian of January 28 (page 20) in a news item titled: “Boxers promise to take ‘Rumble in Dar’ by storm”. Malawian Denis Mwale, who was to fight it out with Tanzanian Ibrahim Mgendera, is reported as bragging: “I will dismantle Mgendera in front of his fans, that is undisputed. I have not come to Tanzania for holiday, rather than to work, which is fighting ‘and win’”. Mwale should have been reported to have said that he had come to Tanzania, not for holidaying, but for fighting and winning (not: “and win”). On his part, Tanzanian Mgendera is reported as saying that it would not be possible for him to lose at the home ground. He ‘promised’ all Tanzania boxing supporters to turn ‘at the venue’ to give him support. He should have been reported to have implored (not promised) Tanzanian boxing fans to turn ‘up’ at the venue (in large numbers) to give him support. A number of fights were lined up and according to the writer: “Also in the list are Jacob Maganga will be trading blows with Hafidh David, while Nassib Ramadhani will fight Nkosinati Biyana from South Africa”. A pronoun is missing from the above sentence which should read: “Also in the list are Jacob Maganga‘who’ will be trading blows with Hafidh David, while Nassib Ramadhani will fight Nkosinati Biyana from South Africa”. We are told that one of the boxers comes from South Africa. The countries from which the three other boxers are coming, are not mentioned. The writer left it to our imagination, the assumption being that they are from Tanzania. Meanwhile from Kamsamba Village in Sumbawanga, we read about a devastating natural phenomenon, in a news item titled: “Hurricane Leaves village households without shelter”. A villager is quoted as saying: “On material day there were strong winds that drove away many residents from their homes. As time went by the winds gathered speed that again drove people outside their homes ‘in fear of lives’ in case the houses collapsed”. It is doubtful whether it is the wind that actually drove these villagers from their homes. Chances are, the villagers moved out themselves, running for dear life, to get away from the buildings which could collapse on them. In fact the villagers’ worst fears became reality, as the writer notes: “After a few minutes, they were surprised to see a huge black cloud low in the sky with the winds increasing speed, that caused the roofs of 24 houses ‘swept away’ with some houses collapsing”. With regard to roofs, I hesitate to use the verb “sweep away”. The entire building could be swept away, roof and all, but if it is just the roof, I would go for “blown away”. “The winds blew away the roofs of 24 houses, while some houses, collapsed entirely.” It is heartening to read that the local legislator went to the rescue of the affected villagers, and donated bags of foodstuffs. lusuggakironde@gmail.com