THINK of a scenario where you do everything right related to your work injury compensation, but in the end, it fails. After all processes of documentations and filling of claim form, you come to know that your claim is rejected as it was raised too late! Yes, that is possible. When filling the compensation claim form, the victim of a workrelated accident must adhere to the timelines. Few days back, I met one employee who suffered an occupational accident that led to the amputation of his left leg. Unfortunately, his compensation claim was rejected by the responsible insurance carrier. Rejection was due to failure to raise it on time as stipulated in laws and regulations, so the claim was out of statutory time. The man was very furious and frustrated. He thought that the time limit for lodging compensation claims is one of the tactics of denying people’s right to compensation. Read ahead to know why there is a time limit for filing a compensation claim. One of the social insurance programmes is the worker’s compensation scheme, also known as workman’s comp. This scheme provides benefits to employees who get injured or sick from a work-related cause. It also includes disability benefits, missed wage replacement and death benefits. In order to raise a claim for injury, death or disease that is related to work, there is a basic documentation required. Compensation claim is a formal application by an insured (victim) to a worker’s compensation scheme for compensation. The social insurance carrier validates the claim and, once approved, it issues payment to the insured or an approved interested party on behalf of the insured person. However, in some of those schemes there is a predefined time limit that victims (claimants) need to adhere to when it comes to ensuring smooth claim settlement. Social insurance law and regulation has a strict time limit regarding applying for a claim from the date of injury. Different social insurance schemes might have different timelines. Missing these deadlines could seriously affect your claim. The Workers Compensation Act is the law regulating processes and compensation in this regard. It also stipulates that a claim for compensation not lodged within a period of twelve months from the date of the event, shall not be considered [Section 39 (2) subsection (1) of the Workers Compensation Act]. The right to pursue compensation starts on the day of the event, if it is an accident. For diseases, it starts from the date of diagnosis. Worker’s compensation scheme has an obligation to pay compensation for occupational accident or diseases, but as a worker or employer, you have the duty and the responsibility to take reasonable steps of notifying the insurer. Claim for compensation needs to be approved by the insurance carrier, it must be proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accident occurred and it was work related, this should be done early as possible. The more time passes until someone registers an accident or claims for benefits, the more difficult it becomes to prove that certain injuries or remaining disabilities are caused by the accident. This is based on the fact that as time passes memories fade and records get lost. Workers’ compensation provides a safety net that helps injured employees get medical support and wage replacement. It also helps to keep employees healthy and hence active in participation in the labour market. So, the time limit is set to motivate people to register an accident as early as it happened so that they might be provided quick medical support and timely compensated. The earlier you report the accident or diseases, the faster official investigation can begin, and the sooner you can potentially receive benefits. Social security and insurance sector are sectors prone to high fraud records. One way of reducing fraud acts is having a tight deadline to lodge compensation claim. This means that a deadline for application gives fraudsters less time to falsify information. Management of the occupational accidents or disease is time consuming since it involves more than three parties - that is employer, employee (claimant), service provider (hospital) and social insurance carrier (insurer). In order to complete the process, it might take some number of days or even a month. Therefore, any delay of claim notification will lead into delay of process. Compensation claim is a liability to the Fund, so for the Fund (insurance carrier) to be sustainable and healthy it must identify its liabilities on time. Having unaccepted liabilities is not healthy to the Fund, since the investment of reserve cash depends on asset available and liabilities. I should be clear that occupational injuries or diseases are more likely, the insurance scheme is not certain with the number of claims that will occur in future. The compensation for the victims injured, contracted occupational disease or killed on work-related incidents is governed by Civil Law. Compensation is simply the award of money (sometimes called the payment of damages) to either the injured person, or to the relatives of the deceased person. All cases that follow under civil law have a time limit. There are several reasons to set a time limit on compensation claims after such events. In case of the man, I mentioned at the beginning he would have had 12 months for registration of his occupational accident and surely have well received the medical care and compensation he deserves. Silvanus Kuloshe is a social security analyst. skuloshe@gmail.com