A MAN with an empty wallet is a man who walks in disgrace, with his head bowed down, and unsure of his future. As I am writing this, I am that man, because my wallet is a disgrace, and my walk is now stooped, because that group of people I call my family have succeeded in turning me into a pauper. I blame my woes, most of them, on my boss, who decided that for our own good, our December salaries should be paid after Christmas, simply because, according to him, he has our interests at heart. “Listen baba Boyi, I know times are tough, but you have to understand my position, because every year soon after Christmas, there is a queue outside my office comprising of people who are in dire need of soft loans,” he told me when I barged into his office on Christmas Eve. The man said that the problem with Tanzanians is that before, during and after the birth of JC (Jesus Christ), people have a tendency of spending money as if they are related to Bakhresa, but soon afterwards they start behaving like beggars who want money by force. So this Christmas my wallet was in critical condition, but the mother of my clan did not want to hear any of it, which forced me to borrow money from Jatello, that fellow from the lake side. Jatello was hesitant at first, but my pleas convinced him, and he parted with a sizeable amount which I was sure was going to sustain me throughout the holiday season. “Baba Boyi, you know that this year I am supposed to take my family to the land of my cousin Obama, where we have a VIP invitation, but because you are a good friend, I will be forced to take the family to Zanzibar, and remind me to call Obama and apologize to him,” he told me. I gave half of it to mama Boyi, but after a few hours, the woman was standing right in front of me with an outstretched hand, demanding for more money. I told her that I am operating at a very low budget, but she insisted that she had to buy meat for guests who will be arriving on the initial day. I cracked my head and tried to remember if I had invited anyone, and I drew a blank. “The problem with you is that you value beer more than what your family eat in this house, and I hope you were joking when you said that we should cook pilau made of beans and vegetables!” she screamed. I am sure the woman was trying to revenge on the fact that I flatly refused to take them to Bagamoyo on Christmas day, and she had rallied the whole family, including the domestic thug, to wage a cold war on me. My quick calculations told me that if I was not careful, then my Christmas will consist of ‘viroba’ and water; because I had all the intentions of visiting Zakayo’s Pub and celebrate the birth of JC. In the evening of the Christmas Eve, I was sitting silently at Zakayo’s Pub, contemplating how I was going to convince mzee Zakayo to loan me two crates of beer, when walked in the domestic thug, the boy who always makes me wonder whether the nurses had not played tricks on me and switched him and disappeared with my genuine son. Looking at him, it was obvious that he was high after puffing the herb he fondly refers to as the ‘holy herb’, because his eyes were bloodshot and droopy, and he had a sheepish grin on his face. He was dancing to some music which was playing in his head, and he was busy shaking his imaginary dreadlock, and chanting ‘You don have fi dread to be rasta..’. “Ire ire my father, let’s build the temple of peace and love, ire, I unite to bring down the evil forces of Babylon, Jah peace shall prevail, good evening ras papa!” he shouted when he saw me, skipping from one foot to another. I did not understand a single word he was telling me, but looking at him, I knew that the boy was heading to the Looney bin anytime, and I knew that I will be happy to transfer him to Mirembe Hospital! I told him to speak in a language that can be understood, otherwise I would be forced to remove my belt and show him that the evil forces of Babylon can inflict great pain on his body. “Mshua ishu yenyewe simpo tu, nahitaji mkwanja kiasi nijitoe kiaina, kuna mzigo leo lazima niutoe kujenga heshima, si unajua tena tajiri yangu!?” I gathered later that the boy needed some money because there was a girl in the neighbourhood he wanted to take out, and that was his politest way of asking for the money. I told him to get lost and concentrate on his studies, and that if he wanted to impress one of his girls, then he should wait until he has his own money to do it. On Christmas day, the visitors, I am sorry to say, consisted of half the Nyakiusa clan from my wife’s family, I knew that if I continued to hang around, then a holy Christmas was bound to take place, so I decided to wander to a nearby ‘grocery’, where I swallowed several cold ones. I left that place very late, and very drunk, I might add, because as I was about to leave for home, a certain fellow who had the looks of a veteran bank robber came, and before I knew it, the flow of bottles landing in front of me increased. “Drink up Baba Boyi! You know you are one of the fellows that I respect very much in this neighbourhood, that is why when I saw you here, I knew that I should stop and irrigate your wise throat!” I learned later that the man is very much interested in my house girl!