AS Tanzania envisages harnessing the huge economic potential attributed to its strategic geographic position, Chinese engagement is increasingly propelling the country’s aspiration to become a regional transport and trade hub. From the successful construction of the Tanzania-Zambia railway line in the early 1970s to the expansion work on the main port in the commercial city—Dar es Salaam, Chinese dominance over Tanzania’s construction industry is attributed to have helped tackle the infrastructure deficit in the country. Official government records show Chinese firms have so far been involved in construction projects worth 17billion US dollars (over 40tri/-), making it the largest contractor in Tanzania. The firms, mainly the China Communication Construction Company Ltd (CCCC), China Railway Construction Engineering Group (CRCEG), China Harbour Engineering Company (CHEC) and China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC) among others, have repeatedly won dozens of construction contracts. CRCEG and China Railway Major Bridge Group (CRMBG), for example, completed the construction of Nyerere Bridge—the first cable-stayed bridge in East Africa in 2016. CCECC on the other hand completed the construction work of the Ubungo interchange—the first multi-layer and multi-track flyover, which is expected to reduce traffic congestion in the city. The junction sees more than 60,000 vehicles passing daily. Authorities in Tanzania recently awarded a 265million US dollar deal to CCECC and China Railway 15th Bureau to construct a 3.2km-long bridge on Lake Victoria. The deal is among major construction projects under President John Magufuli administration, and is not the only project being implemented by the Chinese firm. CCCC won the Mwanza BL road project in 2009 and recently completed construction work of the 71.8km-long Bariadi-Lamadi highway. Mr Zhang Bin, Counsellor in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs responsible for African Affairs Department told media executives in 2019 that Chinese investment in the East African country is set to rise. A statement issued by the government Chief Spokesperson, Dr Hassan Abbasi this week detailed that between 1990 and 2020, a total of 84 projects in the construction industry have been registered at the national investment centre—TIC by Chinese firms. Dr Abbasi said the project had helped create 16, 040 direct jobs and are valued at 1.558.61million US dollars. In addition, the Chinese have implemented 47 projects worth over 328.96million US dollars in the transportation sector. Mid last year, Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) signed a 43.5million US dollars deal with China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation to construct a 52.3 kilometres double-lane road in Dodoma City. The project funded by the African Development Bank is expected to improve logistic services in response to the anticipated population growth and the expansion of economic activity in the political capital. As Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi visits Tanzania this week during this year’s first official tour in Africa, it brings up the usual debates about the Chinese’s activity in building and financing the country’s infrastructures. Tanzania Ministry of Works and Transport believe “Chinese firms have become an ideal development partner.” Tanzania construction activities valued at 1.37tri/- in 2016 has increased to 1.52tri/- in 2017. The highlights issued by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) indicate that the economic sector grew by 11.1 per cent. Tanzania which is strategically located as an import-export gateway for six land-locked countries in eastern Africa needs to improve its infrastructures, notably transportation system to capitalise on the potentials. Besides, Tanzania is one of the 132 countries under the Belt and Roads Initiative (BRI) enjoying the attention of the Asian country, which in 2013 announced its intention to increase infrastructure development in the global south. The National Bureau of Statistics of China reported last year that Tanzania is the second-largest employer of Chinese contractors in East Africa after Kenya, having employed 39,614 Chinese nationals. The Chinese are working in key industrial and transportation projects. In the last 20 years, these Chinese firms generated 12.7billion US dollars from Tanzania. “Between 2000 and 2017, Tanzania received a total of 2.3billion US dollars for various development projects,” it said. Even with the deficit in trade volumes, the expansion work at the Dar es Salaam port, for instance, has helped increase the volume of cargo to 28million tonnes in 2020, up from 20million tonnes in 2017. President Magufuli has repeatedly said that Tanzania must be independent due to its geopolitical and natural resources advantages. But he insists that investment in infrastructure can be essential to diversity economies and promote industrialisation. “Infrastructure investment can increase business confidence and draw in investments in other sectors, foster innovation and productivity,” the President was quoted by local media when he toured the construction work of the Kigongo-Busisi bridge in Mwanza recently, urging the contractor to speed up the work. President Magufuli believes such infrastructure can lower transport costs, facilitate trades and transfer of knowledge. Improving connectivity and logistics is important for promoting the country’s goods and commodity exports, which can thereby help integrate into global value chains. According to the World Bank, 1 per cent reduction in trade costs is likely to increase bilateral trade between economies that participate in the BRI projects by 1.3 per cent. This is the reason why President Magufuli administration resolved to implement the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) line from Dar es Salaam to Makutopora, some 700 km. The electric track is expected to link Tanzania with Rwanda and Burundi through Kigoma and Uganda through Mwanza. Experts suggest improvement in network and capacity of railways and other cross-border transport infrastructure could therefore lead to more intra-African trade, as well as increased investment. Meanwhile, some Chinese companies are increasingly gaining prominence in the construction industry, especially in providing construction materials or technical capacities. Huawei, for instance, has supported the construction of high-speed broadband internet. Twyford, Sunshine and Sunda are the major players of construction materials in the country.