NGORONGORO residents are now up in arms with the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) for not involving them in key decisions. The residents, through ward councillors and community elders (laigwanans) have pointed an accusing finger at NCAA, saying there was a plan to have them evicted from a 8,292 square-kilometre land and lie to Minister for Tourism and Natural Resources. Speaking to reporters in Karatu Town on Saturday, the irate residents blamed NCAA for failing to strike the right balance between conservation and people’s livelihoods. The residents also took issue with recommendations in the NCA Multiple Land Use Module of 2018/19, saying there weren’t involved in drafting it. “Such a motive just goes to show the clear intention of NCAA of evicting us from the place we called home for more than 50 years,” alleged Lazaro Saitoti, the head of laigwanans in Ngorongoro. Mr Saitoti further alleged that the taskforce formed by former Minister for Tourism, Dr Hamis Kigwangalla failed to furnish him with a clear picture of the situation on the ground as far as the welfare of pastoralist communities was concerned. “NCAA is clearly failing in its role of developing and promoting the livelihoods of Ngorongoro residents,” he explained. Mr Saitoti insisted that as residents, they were more than ready to sit down with NCAA to resolve a number of issues like invasive species and population increase in the area. The residents dared the authority to come up with a clear general management plan (GMP), which among other things, governed conservation and people’s livelihoods. “We are using an out-dated GMP which doesn’t really reflect the real situation on the ground,” he added. For his part, Kakesio Ward Councillor Johannes Tiamasi deemed claims of NCAA’s collapse as baseless and unfounded. He said the residents had occupied the area since 1959 and never had they threatened the existence of wildlife in the area. “If anything, we are complementing NCAA’s efforts,” he noted. During a meeting with media stakeholders last month, NCAA Conservation Commissioner, Dr Freddy Manongi, observed that while human development was crucial, conservation and wildlife protection remained vital and was a tourist attraction. Dr Manongi said pressure in the area was huge, closely arriving at a tipping point. Since 1959, human population in the area has increased by 1,000 per cent to more than 100,000 within the crater. Population increase in the area has resulted in environmental degradation, water loss and human wildlife conflict (HWC).