NATIONAL Insurance Corporation (NIC) has been named the main sponsor of the 2021 Goba Hills Marathon scheduled to be held later this month in Dar es Salaam. According to the event’s organiser Goba Road Runners (GRR) club, this year’s race which goes under the theme ‘Run, Save mother and child life’, is scheduled to take place on January 31st at Goba Secondary School grounds in Ubungo Municipal. The club unveiled that this year’s race takes its second edition and will focus on improving mother and child life especially within Ubungo Municipality, by improving dispensaries and health centres, and more on wards of expectant mothers. Goba Road Runners hosts this year’s marathon after hosting a successful event in February last year. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, while announcing the race’s sponsorship, NIC Managing Director Elirehema Doriye said NIC is proud to be the main sponsor of Goba Hills Marathon 2021 that focuses on improving mother and child life. ‘This is a great opportunity for us to partner with Goba Road Runners (GRR) Club to sponsor Goba Hills Marathon 2021. Our aim is to support long term development plan in sports sector in our country, and it is our pleasure that through Goba Hills Marathon this will be achieved,’ said Doriye. Doriye added, ‘Nowadays sports is no longer a leisure activity but is a source of employment to our youth. So to achieve this, we need a strong investment, which with our partnership with GRR will develop a plan so that after the event we can have some athletes whom we can develop and invest on them for the future participation on national and international events’. “Coming to sponsor Goba Hills Marathon as an insurance company is to remind Tanzanians and athletes in general the importance of insurance in sports sector, and NIC offers various package to athletes and therefore we call all athletes to insure with us for better of their future,” said Doriye. On his part Goba Road Runners club , Chairman Benson Luoga said that Goba Hills Marathon 2021 will comprise various events including the 42km Full Marathon, 21km Half Marathon, 10km Corporate Run and the 5km Family Fun Run. Luoga also unveiled that registration fee for those wishing to participate in this year’s race is 30,000 shillings and already registration has begun through GRR website.