HUNDREDS of pigs have died from African swine fever in Kahama, Geita, Mbogwe and Sengerema districts, authorities have said, noting that the outbreak spreading in the Lake Zone has cost livestock keepers 375m/-. Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mashimba Ndaki said at the weekend that 909 deaths of pigs were recorded in Kahama, Geita (56), Mbogwe (388) and Sengerema (147), being 10.1 per cent of 14, 814 pigs in the four councils. “Five cases have been reported in Kyerwa (4) and Misungwi (1), whose value is not yet ascertained,” he said, noting that the government was working to contain the outbreak. The minister explained that a team of veterinary experts had visited affected districts to help control the spread of the disease. “We have experts monitoring the situation and tomorrow another group from the ministry will be going there,” he explained. He named the experts working together with colleagues in affected district councils from Tanzania Veterinary Laboratory Agency (TVLA), Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) and Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). He instructed regional and district commissioners to control movement and transportation of pigs and their products in their areas of jurisdiction to control the spread of deadly swine flu. Mr Ndaki said swine flu had been reported in the six Lake Zone districts, causing an alarm that the disease could spread to other districts. The minister noted that the disease should be controlled in its early stages before causing serious destruction to livestock that would, in turn, have negative impacts on people employed in the sector and lead to huge losses. “All regional and district commissioners should focus on changing and improving the situation in their respective areas before the situation worsens,” he instructed. He added that transportation of pigs in and outside their areas of jurisdiction should be controlled and animals in those areas should be quarantined. According to him, livestock extension officers should educate livestock keepers and businesspeople about the disease and impose temporary restrictions on the consumption of pork during this period. Kahama District first reported cases of African swine fever in December 2020. Mr Anamringi Macha, the District Commissioner, explained that pork sales had been banned to curb the spread of the virus. “The district authorities in collaboration with the central government are working hard to ensure the disease is controlled before it spreads to neighbouring districts and regions,” said Mr Macha. Previous outbreaks of African swine fever in March 2018 killed more than 900 pigs, but the disease remained in Ruvuma Region.