OWNERS of day care centres for children in the country have been directed to hire professionals in formation and development, so as to ensure that the children get proper care. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children (Community Development), Dr John Jingu, said that was a basic requirement. Dr Jingu, who was speaking at a graduation ceremony of the Institute of Social Work (ISW)-Kisangara Campus, said there was no country that would develop well if its children had no sound background and were not brought up properly. During graduation he stressed a need for parents, guardians and teachers to take good care of their children for betterment of the country and people in the future. Dr Jingu thanked residents for joining forces with the government in initiating, constructing and running centres that brought up children before they joined primary school. He said training provided by ISW at Kijitonyama and Kisangara Campus had benefited much various children and families in the country. “In order for this to be successful, we have to work together even more, make sure all day care centres have professionals in child formation so that proper training is provided to children from early age,” said Dr Jingu. He directed ISW management to invest more in human resources at Kisangara Campus so that it improved training of its students who in turn would take care of children and social affairs. ISW Rector, Dr Joyce Nyoni, thanked the government for administering ISW and issuing different directives to boost social welfare and bring about positive results. Director and Registrar of Nongovernmental Organisations (NGOs) Vickness Mayao said the Social Welfare Department would supervise ISW-Kisangara Campus so that it provided training that would spearhead positive social change. She was speaking on behalf of Social Welfare Commissioner, Dr Naftali Ng’ondi. ISW is a higher learning institution established by the Institute of Social Work Act (Cap 110 R.E 2002) as amended by the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments No 3) Act of 2002. The main objective was to prepare qualified human resources for strengthening social service delivery in Tanzania. The most recent development is the introduction of Masters of Social Work (MSW) in 2014/15 and Business Administration Programmes from NTA level 4 to 8 and Certificate in Community Work with Children and Youth in 2016/17 academic year. Also, since 2020 the Institute of Social Work was given the mandate to run a new campus at Mwanga in Kilimanjaro Region (Kisangara Campus) that offers training in social work programmes at certificate and diploma levels (NTA Level 4 and 5). All training programmes offered by the institute are competency based, aimed at equipping trainees with requisite professional knowledge, skills and competence in their areas of specialisation. They also focus on demand of the larger community.