Over 6,000 Buyekera Ward residents in Bukoba Municipal Council are in danger of contracting contagious diseases including cholera due to continuous use of contaminated water from the Kanoni river. A spot survey made by this newspaper revealed that some unscrupulous people were draining toilets at night on the Kanoni River posing a health risk. Chairman for Buyekera Mtoni Street Audax Mathias recently convened a meeting where the residents voiced their concern regarding the filth. Bakoba Ward Councillor Shaban Rashid on the other hand, promised that he would present the issue before the full council meeting for necessary action. Meanwhile, Kagera residents have been urged to increase efforts and maintain hygiene, including having decent toilets to ensure cholera is controlled. Kagera Regional Administrative Secretary Faustin Kamuzora said that cholera hit Bukoba Municipal Council two years ago with two deaths recorded. “The fight against the pandemic must involve all residents. It is a matter of life and death. The only known cause for the deadly disease is dirt in all its forms. First and foremost, proper sanitation is one of the tools against the disease. It requires the highest degree of personal hygiene. This can be done. Let us all take heed,” he said. He urged residents to take precautionary measures, including washing hands with soap, before taking any meal and doing the same when coming out of a latrine. He has as well called upon residents in the region to ensure they boil or chemically treat drinking water. Cholera affects an estimated 3-5 million people worldwide and causes 58,000-130,000 deaths a year. Being a water-borne and filth-borne disease, cholera is no laughing matter. It is a highly contagious malady that can wreak havoc in a wider area within a very short span of time, leaving a trail of death in its wake. Cholera is an infection of the small intestine by some strains of the bacteria vibrio cholera. It is downright disgraceful as the epidemic is all about coming into mouth contact with infected human faeces! The classic symptom is large amounts of watery diarrhoea that lasts a few days. Vomiting and muscle cramps may also occur. Diarrhoea can be so severe that it leads within hours to severe dehydration and electrolyte imbalance. This may result in sunken eyes, cold skin, decreased skin elasticity and wrinkling of the hands and feet. Symptoms start two hours to five days after exposure.