KATAVI Regional Commissioner, Mr Juma Homera has expressed his satisfaction with the performance speed shown by Chinese contractor -Xiamen Construction Group Co Ltd- in implementing the multibillion strategic Karema Port in Lake Tanganyika. The terminal whose constructions will cost over 47.92bn/- is constructed along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Tanganyika District, Katavi Region, and it is expected to be completed next year. It will be the major zonal terminal to be reached by Dar es Salaam- Mpanda railway line operated by Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) through its stretch that starts at Mpanda Town, in Katavi Region. The Port is a strategic terminal because it will serve parts of Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Zambia and Burundi across Lake Tanganyika. Mr Homera told the Sunday News over the weekend during a phone interview that upon completion, the terminal will stimulate movement of goods, services as well as people between Tanzania and DRC, Zambia and Burundi, as well as boosting trade between the neighbouring countries. He also commended the fifth phase administration for its commitment to open up Katavi Region by improving infrastructure and other social services. “Truly the government will continue walking the talk...the terminal is set to be the country's economic gateway to the neighbouring countries of DRC, Zambia and Burundi,” observed the RC. In July last year, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa appealed to the contractor to work day and night to finalise the project in time to boost trade between Tanzania and DRC. He also directed government agencies and departments to start providing services for visitors and from DRC at Ikola ward, Tanganyika District. "The Karema Port, whose construction costs 47.92bn/-, is expected to be completed next year (this year), and it will be the major zonal terminal which will be reachable by railway from Mpanda Town and connected to Tanga and Dar es Salaam ports," added the premier. This goes in line with the government's commitment of constructing a railway line from Mpanda Town to Karema zonal terminal. The railway line stretching from Mpanda Town to the strategic port of Karema is seen as an important step to improve rail transport as the project is expected to be finished next year. Speaking in Mpanda Town in August last year, Tanzania Railways Cooperation TRC Director, Mr Masanja Kadogosa during his working tour in Katavi Region said the government had set aside over 60bn/- for construction of Karema Port and railway line to the major zonal terminal in Lake Tanganyika. “Construction of this railway will enable goods destined for some parts of Eastern Congo DR to be transported by rail from Dar es Salaam to Karema Port before proceeding to the largest Central Africa nation,” he said. According to Mr Kadogosa, part of over 6bn/- set aside for the project will be spent on construction of the railway line which will connect the terminal to Mpanda Town. The central railway line branches off in Kaliua District, Tabora, before continuing to Mpanda in Katavi Region.