TANZANIA and Mozambique have agreed to intensify security and economies of the two countries, as well as those of the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) member states, the main focus being improving the livelihoods of people. Speaking at a joint press conference after holding talks and gracing a meeting with technical teams from both countries, both President John Magufuli and the visiting Mozambican President, Filipe Nyusi expressed optimism that their deliberations would soon bear fruits. "During a tete-a-tete we had enough time to discuss the challenges facing our people in the two countries as well as all SADC member states, the main focus being on building stronger economies," said Mr Nyusi, who doubles as the incumbent SADC Chairman. Mr Nyusi took over the Chairmanship from Dr Magufuli in August, last year, whereas the handing over event was done via a video conference due to the Covid- 19 pandemic. The Mozambican leader told journalists further that apart from security and economy, the two Heads of State had yet another time to discuss how they can improve transport and infrastructure, which he said were key for peoples' centred development. "I believe that our meeting will bring positive results in the near future for the interest of our people," added the visiting Mozambican leader. Speaking at the same occasion, Dr Magufuli also reemphasized on the need to build stronger economies for the two countries, as well as ensuring that security was guaranteed to people. He further took time to remind Tanzanians and the people of Mozambique to further strengthen bilateral diplomatic, social and political relations that were initiated by the founding fathers of the two nations---Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Eduardo Mondlane. "The friendship between Tanzania and  Mozambique shall remain in existence today, tomorrow and even the day after tomorrow," insisted Dr Magufuli, adding that there was no reason whatsoever that could deter the two nations from continuing to collaborate. Statistics from the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) show that bilateral trade on exports between the two countries has increased from 76.4bn/- in 2018 to 93.5bn/- in 2019. According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, there were Tanzanian companies that have heavily invested in the neighbouring Mozambique, including Quality Form and Bakhresa Group of Companies, among others. This is the second time Mr Nyusi is visiting Tanzania during President Magufuli's regime. The last time the Mozambican leader visited Tanzania was December 2017, and he was received by Dr Magufuli at Dodoma. The friendship between the two brotherly countries dates back since Mozambique was fighting for her independence from Portugal. After independence, civil war broke out between the ruling party Front for Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO) and Mozambique Resistance Movement (RENAMO) who were backed by Rhodesia and South Africa. FRELIMO was formed in Dar es Salaam- with the assistance of Mwalimu Nyerere to help the group fight the Portuguese government, and this is why today Tanzania and Mozambique remain friends. Mr Nyusi who was in the country for a one-day state visit flew back to his country on Monday afternoon.