AGA Khan and Dar Cricket Club and K&P Construction inked a perfect start in the DC Gymkhana Cup 2021 openers staged over the weekend at Dar Gymkhana Club oval in Dar es Salaam. It was a classy showdown displayed by K&P constructions who opened the competition with a 42- run victory over Alaf Aces. K&P Construction won the toss, elected to bat first, registering 133 runs in just six of 20 overs. Alaf Aces failed to chase the score as they were all out after positing 91 runs in ten overs. Apart from the victory they produced batsman Venkateswararao Katu who was crowned as man of the match after hitting 42 runs from 39 balls. These results have put them in the lead of Group C after pocketing two points and 2.10 run rate. Alaf Aces are placed second without a point with -2.10 run rate. Agha Khan defeated Strikers with 67 runs in the second game staged at the same venue. Aga Khan won the toss, elected to bat first collecting 107 runs in nine of 20 overs. Their opponent didn’t go far as they were all our 40 runs garnered from ten of 20 overs. Sadiki Iddi was named as man of the match after registering 25 runs from 43 balls. Their victory has put them on a top of Group A with two points and average 3.35 run rate. Point-less Strikers are second with-3.35 run rate. Dar es Salaam Cricket Club have claimed Group B helm with two points and 2.30 run rate while their Sunday opponent Unisoft Rising Stars are second without a point but have -2.10 average net run rates. DCC took the command after beating Unisoft by 46 runs. Unisoft Rising Stars were lucky to win the toss and elected to bowl and posted 126 in five of 20 overs. In the second innings Unisoft managed to collect 80 runs in ten of 20 overs. Tanzania Cricket Association(TCA) through its communication officer Atif Salim said the T-20 tournament had the brilliant start and thanked all teams participating in the tournament Teams have been grouped in three groups. Group A comprises Agha Khan Sports Club, Caravans, Sandy’s Super Strikers, Shree Kutchi Leva Patel Sports Club and Strikers. Group B includes; Dar es Salaam Cricket Club (DCC), Estim, Union Sports Club, Uniosoft Rising Stars and Upanga Sports Club. Group C consists of Alaf Aces, Annadil Burhani, Dar Black Panthers, K&P Constructions and Patel Brotherhood. Group D has General Petroleum, Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club, Lions Cricket Club, Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) and Tamil Nadu Sports Club. All matches, according to him, are staged at Gymkhana oval in Dar es Salaam. This is going to be the first competition hosted by the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) in the year 2021 after completing a successful 2020 season.