ON his first state visit to the People’s Republic of China from 16th to 23rd February, 1965, President Nyerere, was well received, and honoured by his hosts, Chairman Mao Zedong, Chairman Liu Shaoqi and Premier Zhou Enlai, by being asked to speak at a huge mass rally at the People’s Square in Beijing. He said: “And we now have a friend, and a great new friend, and a friend from whom we were barred in the days of colonialism. The fears of others, will not affect Tanzania’s friendship with China, any more than our friendship with other countries would be affected by what their opponents say of them. Our belief is that each Country must choose for itself its own form of Society according to its own objective circumstances. It is this belief which underlies our opposition to colonialism and to neo-colonialism. We wish to be friendly with all, and we will never allow our friends to choose our enemies.” It is in pursuance of this doctrine that Tanzania is so happy today as it was in 1965, in its friendship with China. The two countries, under their leaderships, past and present, are still guided in their great friendship, with this doctrine. This doctrine was the basis of the China-Tanzania Friendship Treaty, signed on 20th February, 1965 between Liu Shaoqi, Chairman of the People’s Republic of China, and Julius K. Nyerere, President of the United Republic of Tanzania. The Treaty has five articles, which aim at maintaining and developing the relations of peace and friendship between the two countries. The Treaty stipulates that Tanzania and China will maintain the Five Principles of mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, noninterference in each other’s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful coexistence as the principles guiding the relations between the two countries. It also states that Tanzania and China agree to develop economic and cultural relations in the spirit of equality, mutual benefit and friendly cooperation, and settle any issue that may arise between them through peaceful consultations. As we celebrate, both in Tanzania and China, this historical Treaty of Friendship, we should also pay tribute to the People’s Republic of China for all the economic and technical assistance given by China to Tanzania over the past 55 years. It has been and still is tremendous friendly support. Among all the assistance rendered by China, the construction of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA) was the biggest Chinese contribution to the political and economic liberation of Tanzania and Zambia. This project represents China’s great love and respect for the people of Tanzania, and indeed Africa as a whole. It was offered to Africa at great cost and sacrifice by the people and government of China. Requests made by President Kaunda of Zambia and President Nyerere of Tanzania to Western countries for building the TAZARA were utterly refused – sometimes with insulting cynicism. Actually, one U.S. ambassador to Tanzania, when discussing with President Nyerere about this request, said, “Mr. President, the Railway to Zambia passes through Zanzibar”. This meant that Tanzania had to accept political conditions attached to granting of that request, one of which was to end the presence in Zanzibar of the East Germany Consulate. This condition was unacceptable to Tanzania. On the contrary, the Chinese Government and the Communist Party of China under the leadership of Chairman Mao Zedong and Premier Zhou Enlai, immediately accepted the request raised by President Nyerere and President Kaunda. All Chairman Mao wanted to be assured of was whether the Railway was really needed. When he got that assurance from President Nyerere, he immediately replied, “It will be built”. No conditions were attached to that huge railway project. The TAZARA project and many others including those in the agricultural sector and relating to peace and security of our country, were supported by China on the basis of the Friendship Treaty signed on 20th January 1965. Let us, the people in China, Tanzania, and other African nations, remember the history and thank, in a special way, the founding fathers of our two nations for their visionary leadership and their desire and quest for peace, unity and a peoplecentred strategy of human development. China remains today a friend in need and a friend indeed of Tanzania and Africa at large.