SICKLE cell anaemia is an inherited form of anaemia in which there aren't enough healthy red blood cells to carry adequate oxygen throughout the body. Normally, the red blood cells are flexible and round, moving easily through the blood vessels. Ideally, Sickle cell anaemia is caused by a mutation in the gene that tells your body to make the red, iron-rich compound that gives blood its red colour (hemoglobin). Hemoglobin allows red blood cells to carry oxygen from your lungs to all parts of your body. In sickle cell anaemia, the abnormal hemoglobin causes red blood cells to become rigid, sticky and misshape like sickles or crescent moons. These irregularly shaped cells can get stuck in small blood vessels, which can slow or block blood flow and oxygen to parts of the body. The sickle cell gene is passed from generation to generation in a pattern of inheritance called autosomal recessive inheritance. This means that both the mother and the father must pass on the defective form of the gene for a child to be affected. If only one parent passes the sickle cell gene to the child, that child will have the sickle cell trait. With one normal hemoglobin gene and one defective form of the gene, people with the sickle cell trait make both normal and sickle cell hemoglobin. Their blood might contain some sickle cells, but they generally don't have symptoms. But they are carriers of the disease, which means they can pass the gene to their children. Symptoms of sickle cell anaemia usually show up at a young age. They may appear in babies as early as 4 months old, but generally occur around the 6-month mark. While there are multiple types of Sickle cell disease, they all have similar symptoms, which vary in severity. In children, symptoms include: excessive fatigue or irritability, anaemia, fussiness, jaundice, skin, swelling, frequent infections and pain in the chest, back, arms, or legs. In adult, symptoms can be different for each person with sickle cell disease. People who have mild types of sickle cell disease may start having symptoms and complications at older ages than those with severe sickle cell disease. The most common symptom is pain which is caused by sickle cells blocking blood flow in blood vessels. When blood vessels are blocked, organs and tissue do not get oxygen, which causes pain. Having fewer red blood cells than normal causes anaemia or not enough oxygen in the blood, makes one feel tired and weak. You may also have symptoms of other health problems if the disease causes damage to a part of the body, such as the spleen, heart, lungs, eyes, kidneys, liver, or other organs. Other symptoms include; anaemia, episodes of pain, frequent infections, delayed growth, vision problems, unexplained episodes of severe pain, swelling in the hands or feet and abdominal swelling, especially if the area is tender to the touch among others. The condition can lead to a host of complications, including: stroke, acute chest syndrome, pulmonary hypertension, organ damage, blindness, leg ulcers and gallstones. Men with sickle cell anaemia can have painful, longlasting erections since sickle cells can block the blood vessels in the penis which can damage the penis and lead to impotence. Children are only at risk for sickle cell disease if both parents carry sickle cell trait. A blood test called a hemoglobin electrophoresis can also determine which type you might carry. People from regions that have endemic malaria are also more likely to be carriers. There are things you can do at home to help relieve your sickle cell symptoms like using heating pads for pain relief, taking folic acid supplements, as well as eating an adequate amount of fruits, vegetables, and whole-wheat grains which can help your body make more red blood cells. Drinking more water can help reduce the chances of sickle cell crises, exercising regularly and cutting down all forms of stressors can also help to reduce the crises. It is important to contact your medical health provider immediately if you think you have any type of infection since early treatment of an infection may prevent a fullblown crisis. If you carry the sickle cell trait, seeing a genetic counsellor before trying to conceive can help you understand your risk of having a child with sickle cell anaemia. He or she can also explain possible treatments, preventive measures and reproductive options. Note that Sickle cell disease is a long-term disease, but you can live a full and active life by learning how to stay as healthy as possible. The following tips can help one to manage sickle cell disease; for instance, find a health care provider who specialises in sickle cell disease or a doctor who specialises in blood diseases. You may have other types of doctors who treat certain complications from organ damage, such as a nephrologist for kidney problems. It is also important to get an annual checkup to keep track of your health conditions or concerns. Prevent infections since they can cause complications from sickle cell disease and maintain healthy habits like staying hydrated, choosing healthy foods and getting regular physical activity, while being careful not to overdo the activities as well as getting adequate sleep and lastly get support since your mental and emotional health is important. Understand that any activity or situation that limits or decreases blood flow, or lowers the amount of oxygen in your blood, can trigger sickle cell pain. Some known triggers for sickle cell pain include; high altitudes, Low-oxygen activities, sudden temperature changes, such as jumping into a cold pool or becoming overheated, dehydration, Intense exercise and Stress. Put in mind that your health is a lifelong journey which is personal and unique. Embrace it by living a healthy lifestyle. ● The Author, Racheal Masibo, is an Assistant Lecturer at St John’s University of Tanzania (SJUT)-School of Nursing, P.O BOX 47 Dodoma Tanzania. Email: rackelmasibo@yahoo.com Mobile: 0717513598