TANZANIANS have been advised to utilise immense opportunities in the poultry industry to employ themselves and help generate more incomes and contribute to economic growth. An indigenous poultry entrepreneur, Mr Khatibu Msangi, said in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday that indigenous chickens played a significant role to nutritional status of human beings and were sources of income. He further asked the government to set up organisations or institutions that would offer poultry feeds at an affordable price to continue supporting small-scale entrepreneurs in their businesses. “The challenge we are facing as small-scale entrepreneurs in broiler poultry is the cost of poultry feeds. For example, a bag of feeds costs 65,000/- and broilers chickens use more than 10 bags in their growth to get better meat for sale,” he said. He added that demand for meat and eggs from indigenous chickens had been increasing because of their perceived image as nutritious, healthy and natural products. For her part, an indigenous poultry entrepreneur, Ms Veronica Mzava, commented that indigenous chicken keepers should be encouraged to increase the size of chickens with knowledge provided that would ultimately meet the current demand of indigenous chickens in the market. She said high demand for indigenous chickens in the market would increase household income, food security and contributed to the country’s economic growth. Moreover, production of a large number of indigenous chickens will make availability of quality chicks for chicken meat dealers, chickens egg dealers, restaurants, hotels, farmers, traders, the government and consumers. She said a disease control programme would help reduce indigenous chicken mortality and ultimately increase household income. According to Tanzania Livestock Master plan, Chicken Development Roadmap 2017/18–2021/22, interventions to transform a family chicken system involves improving indigenous chicken productivity through improved breed selection, importation of high yield pure tropical scavenging brooding breeds and importation of semi-scavenging tropical breeds. These measures should go along with a reduction in reproductive wastage by introducing brooding and artificial incubation facilities such as hay box brooders and small-scale incubators and health, feed and management interventions. Adoption and coverage of the intervention at 40 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively, will impact 12 per cent of total indigenous chickens over the 5-year project period. Tropical improved chickens will grow from 15,000-2,000,000 chickens in 5 years. Interventions in improved traditional family chickens (indigenous and imported pure breeds) aim at upgrading the flock size from eight hens. Eggs laid per year will increase from 50-90 and average weight of sold chickens will increase from 1.1– 1.4kg. Through the semi-scavenging tropical crossbreeds such as Kuroiler, holding per family, will remain 25 chickens and it is expected to grow to at least 150 eggs per hen/year with 2.8kg live weight for a mature chicken. With additional animal health services, chicken mortality before marketing will drop from 50-10 per cent. The average number of eggs consumed on a farm per year will increase from 10- 20 and chickens consumed from 5-10, both having 100 per cent increase each.