PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has strongly warned individuals who encroach road reserve areas, cautioning that such people should never expect any form of compensation when expanding infrastructure. The Prime Minister sounded the warning in Zanzibar on Saturday (January 8, 2021) when he inaugurated the newly built Matemwe-Muyuni road in Unguja North Region. Premier Majaliwa spoke on the malpractice by some individuals with special focus on the tendency by some people to build their houses on road reserves. "Check yourself if you are living in a safe place or risk demolition without compensation, particularly for those who invaded reserved areas," Majaliwa  insisted. The road inauguration was among activities listed to celebrate the 57th anniversary of the Zanzibar 1964 revolution which led to total independence of Zanzibar after the fall of the sultan regime backed by the British colonies at that time. Premier Majaliwa told Matemwe residents that the government has been taking different measures to achieve development goals including road improvements, but the infrastructure needs sustainable maintenance, mainly proper use. "Do not litter the roads, burn used tires on roads, and never seat recklessly at the road sides to avoid accidents. The role of maintenance is for all, not the government alone," he said. The prime minister also advised the youth in areas where infrastructure development has been going on to apply for jobs they can do at the sites to get additional benefit from the government projects. The Infrastructure, Communication, and Transport Minister Ms Rahma Kassim Ali said that the finished road was the implementation of the government's vision 2020 which ended last year,  Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) 2015-2020 manifesto; anti-poverty strategy- MKUZA III; National Transport Policy; and the Zanzibar Transport Master plan. She said that the improved road network so far has reached a total of 1,325. 44 Kilometres which include 538.12 Kilomtres in Pemba. Permanent Secretary- Ministry of Infrastructure, Communication and Transport Mustafa Aboud Jumbe said that Matemwe – Muyuni road is the Project funded by African Development Bank (AfDB) which include Bububu - Mahonda – Mkokotoni. China Civil Engineering Construction Cooperation (CCECC) constructed the road from 2017 at the cost of 71.9bn/-. The funds include other roads opened last year. Both the Union and Zanzibar government have all along been strict on individual who encroach road reserve areas. It will be remembered that the expansion of Kimara- Kibaha stretch on Morogoro road served an ideal lesson for the malpractice after a number of houses were demolished as they were found to have erected on illegal areas.