NON-performing contractors in water projects in the country now risk also being denied tenders in other East African Community (EAC) member states. The new development may take effect in the region after President John Magufuli yesterday directed Minister for Water Jumaa Aweso to share records of all poor performing water contractors with other governments in the EAC bloc. The head of State issued the directive at Isagehe village during a function to launch Kagongwa Water Project valued at over 23bn/- upon completion and serve over 100,000 Isagehe, Isaka and Kagongwa residents in Kahama District, Shinyanga region. However, he expressed concern over poor implementation of water projects with authorities taking no punitive measures against underperforming contractors. Elaborating, he noted that in the first phase of his leadership, the Ministry of Water gave him the biggest headache in implementing big projects, saying: “It is the ministry with big projects and could only see 30 per cent implementations being registered. “I am happy that you instituted punitive measures against fake water contractors in Mwanga District, Kilimanjaro region by firing them. Had you not reached the decision I would have fired you instead,” President Magufuli told Minister Aweso. He added: “Fire all those who delay implementation of projects. None of the contractors came here to waste time. They came here to work and if you want to get money from the government of Tanzania, you must deliver.” H owever, he asked the minister to consult the Contractors Registration Board (CRB) to blacklist all contractors he fired after failing to deliver, adding that they should not land in any job again in the country. “Since Tanzania government works together with EAC partner states, send the list of the bogus contractors to other regional governments. We don’t need conmen in this country. “We want whoever is given taxpayers’ money for a specific task to do it properly. That is the agreement between the contractor and the government,” he added. In a related development, the President congratulated Mr Aweso for a good start at the ministry in terms of performance, and asked him to maintain the pace. Elaborating, he asked the ministry’s leaders to task its engineers as local consultants to implement water projects and bring development in the country. In one of his cabinet reshuffle, Dr Magufuli swapped the then Works, Transport and Communication Minister Professor Makame Mbarawa with his Water counterpart Engineer Isack Kamwelwe.