THERE is worry about the accuracy of malaria testing kits that could be compromised, according to a research scientist. Since the adoption of the Malaria Rapid Diagnostic Tests (MRDTs) in the country in 2009, malaria testing and diagnosis in health facilities has more than doubled. The tests short turn-around time, ease in use and less demand for expertise, have proven a perfect substitute to the previously used method of examining malaria parasites in a patient’s blood using a microscope, also known as microscopy. Mr Robert Kaaya, a research scientist with Pan-African Malaria Vector Research Consortium (PAMVERC) at the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College (KCMUCo) with expertise in molecular and immunological techniques, is worried that change in the genes responsible for the production of the proteins may distort accuracy of the tests. Majority of the testing kits in Tanzania, he says, are used to detect the histidine rich protein-2 (HRP2) found in the malaria-causing parasite, Plasmodium falciparum (pf). He says that MRDTs detect specific proteins produced by the malaria parasites in the blood of infected individuals. “Whenever there is a change in the gene, there will be impaired or low production of the proteins and this distorts diagnosis. Parasites lacking the protein, HRP2 cannot be detected by the Rapid Diagnostic Test and this may lead one to report false-negative results,” Mr Kaaya says. The PhD fellow with THRiVE (Training Health workers into Vocational Excellence) is of the view that false-negative MRDT results lead to under diagnosis of malaria and if patients, who are infected but test negative do not receive antimalarial treatment, severe disease and even death may result. Premised on that, Mr Kaaya, through his PhD research, is examining prevalence of the lack of the pfhrp2 gene in malaria patients in Tanzania. Currently, he is conducting community-based surveys in Handeni District in Tanga Region and Lower Moshi area in Kilimanjaro. Preliminary findings show that there is evidence of the malaria parasites lacking the HRP2, a phenomenon called gene deletion. That poses a serious threat to malaria control especially in areas of the country experiencing a high malaria burden. “This concern warrants wide scale surveillance by the government to monitor gene deletions and their impact in relation to MRDTs performance,” Mr Kaaya advises. Through his PhD, he is also going to understand what the drivers for the deletions are. Malaria parasites with HRP2 deletion were first reported from the Amazon region (Peru and neighbouring countries) in 2010 and more recently, at high prevalence in Eritrea. Consequently, different research groups have recommended these countries to cease use of the pfhrp2 based MRDTS. Mr Kaaya is also a co-author of a novel protocol detailing the methodology of detecting gene deletions published in the National Centre for Biotechnology Information Journal in May 2020. He is the only scientist from Tanzania featured in the protocol. On publishing scientific papers from his PhD study, Mr Kaaya says he is yet to because his research ought to undergo several rounds of validation to ascertain that deletions are true. Nonetheless, he says that the THRiVE PhD fellowship has afforded him immense opportunities. “It is helping to build me into becoming an independent researcher able to set timelines for myself and plan my field activities. I have also been exposed to various professionals in my field including my supervisors from LSHTM. Together, we are thinking of putting up research programmes and writing research grants together,” he says. Ten years from today, Mr Kaaya sees himself as an independent researcher holding several grants regarding malaria and arboviruses. He appeals to academic institutions to establish communications offices in order to support scientists to liaise with and communicate their research with various audiences. To the scientists, he advises that it is important to streamline community and public engagement programmes with their research from the beginning in order to expand the impact of their research projects on different communities. Mr Kaaya has been involved in collaborations with scientists from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the University of Ottawa Canada, Centre for Medical Parasitology (CMP) Denmark and Building Stronger Universities (BSU). THRIVE is a consortium of African and European institutions led by Makerere University. It includes three universities (KCMUCo, Gulu University and Makerere University), three research institutes (ICIPE in Kenya, UVRI in Uganda, NIMR in Tanzania) and two Northern Universities (LSHTM and Oxford Universities). THRiVE mission is to empower African institutions to become research engines for health innovations and evidence-based healthcare practices and policies.