TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) Naliendele has implored potential investors to set up a cashew nut processing industry to produce juice, wine and other byproducts from raw cashews grown in the country. Acting Director of TARI Naliendele Dr Fortunatus Kapinga made recently, noting that the institute has developed a technology for cashew nut value addition. “We have technology for adding value into the raw cashews. What we need is the processing industry to produce the enhanced products such as wine and juice,” he said noting the institute through Naliendele Centre is processing products such as juice, wine and jam through the developed technology. The establishment of the industry according to Dr Kapinga would help the country fetch more money from the byproducts of the cashews than nuts. “The cashew apple processing industry will help deliver health benefits to our country such as creating employment opportunities and economic potential for farmers and entrepreneurs,” he said. He said 90 per cent of the cashew apple was being wasted as the focus goes to the nuts alone. “Farmers are losing 90 per cent of the cashew as they focus on the nuts alone,” he said, noting that over 100,000/- is lost through wasted cashew apples in one kilogramme of raw nuts that usually sold at between 2,000/- and 5,000/-. Dr Kapinga made the revelation shortly after meeting the Regional Commissioner of Ruvuma Ms Christina Mndeme who had visited the Centre to learn about various research activities conducted by TARI Naliendele. She commended the researchers at Naliendele for developing the processing technology for value addition in cashew products, calling on the institute to collaborate with VETA and SIDO to develop affordable modern technology machines for processing cashew nut products. “Having affordable modern technologies for processing the value-added products will enable the majority of the entrepreneurs to venture into cashew processing industries,” she said. On the other hand, the RC welcomed local and foreign investors to invest in small and medium cashew byproducts industries in Ruvuma Region, noting that interested investors will be given all the support including land for investment within two weeks. Ms Mndeme said the region boasts conducive environment to support investments, including infrastructures, reliable power and water. She said the research by TARI Naliendele on development of the cashew processing technology should be translated into reality by setting up industries including cashew apple, cashew dry and sweet wine in order to widen the market as well as increasing the cashew nut production in the country.