YESTERDAY, while still touring Kagera Region to have firsthand information on community projects being implemented by the fifth phase government, President John Magufuli told investors, be they locals or foreigners that Tanzania is safe and has maximum security to protect their interests. Bravo President for the umpteenth time giving this assurance! Though there may be several factors attracting an investor to a country including wage rates, labour skills, tax rates, transport and infrastructure among others, political stability that Tanzania enjoys in the Great Lakes Region should not be taken for granted. This is a country that, from independence has been peaceful without any historical tribal clashes and internal conflicts, and still assures foreigners (read investors) maximum security and safety of their investments to the extent that some have opted to be natural citizens. More than anything, investors want to see a return on their investment. Investors are in the business of putting money into growing businesses so they can make money. If you can demonstrate that your business will make them money, then you’re 90per cent there and this is what Tanzania has from the word- go. In the long term, investment is important for improving productivity and increasing the competitiveness of an economy. Without investment, an economy could enjoy high levels of consumption, this creates an unbalanced economy and no one would long for this. And by encouraging foreign direct investment, the government will create local jobs for its citizens and chain of related businesses and improved economic growth will be seen everywhere in Tanzania. “This project will employ eight million workers and Tanzania generally is a better place to invest. “We promised to deliver eight million employments; once this mine starts operating we will have an assurance of employments,” further said the head of State while presiding over signing a contract deal of 664/- million dollars between the government and LZ Nickel Limited Company, a direct show that investment in Tanzania is what the government advocates for development and raised economic welfare for its citizens. Tanzania generally enjoys economic stability with high growth potential displayed by a young and vibrant population, meaning that any potential investor will not find it hard to secure a local manpower. Equally blessed with precious minerals and stones e.g. Tanzanite and gold, tourist attractions, natural gas and vast arable land among others, any serious investor will find the going and business smooth, hence, this is the time to invest in Tanzania.