SIMIYU Region has reiterated its commitment to supporting and safeguarding Airtel Tanzania investment in the region, which will make the company continue investing heavily in the region. Speaking during the launch of Airtel 4G network at the weekend, Simiyu Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Miriam Mmbanga said she had learnt that Airtel was upgrading and promoting its services for better communication services especially in rural areas. “For this reason, Airtel in Simiyu has launched its 4G network and at the same launched Airtel Money branches,” she said. She added: “I commend Airtel Tanzania for choosing to invest in Simiyu Region. I want to assure Airtel that the regional government is supportive of your investment and we will protect the interests of Simiyu residents and of the company.” She said in many cases, companies investigated places of investment before any investment move to avoid losses. “I commend Airtel for investing in the region and especially for making our rural areas connected to communication services,” Ms Mmbanga noted. She explained that Simiyu Region was one of the regions leading in natural wealth, namely cotton farming and mineral mining. With Airtel investment, she is sure that the world will now be able to discover these resources and attract more investors. Airtel Tanzania Territory Sales Manager for Simiyu Region Godlisten Pallangyo said Airtel Tanzania had put in place a long-term plan to promote and upgrade its services to attract more customers, especially those living in rural areas. “We all understand the challenges that face our fellow Tanzanians living in rural areas in communications. Our goal is to address these challenges and ensure they enjoy communication services as free as those living in urban areas,” Mr Pallangyo said. He added that for that reason, Airtel had upgraded all its telecommunications towers in the region to 4G, providing customers with efficient telecommunications services. “Our Airtel 4G network comes with modern technology and fast internet services. May I use this opportunity to call all residents and customers in Simiyu Region to come and upgrade their SimCard to Airtel 4G network for free,” he said. Airtel has also launched Airtel Money branches in every district and municipal council. “This is to ensure that our customers get services at their closest reach. Airtel Tanzania will continue investing in improving its services and products to match the daily digital life of our customers,” Mr Pallangyo said.