TANZANIA, East Africa’s second largest economy, is set to be the first country in Africa to have a specialised laboratory for testing the quality of disinfectants and antiseptics. Tanzania Medicines and Medical Devices Authority (TMDA) now finalises procedures that would lead to having the laboratory in its Lake Zone office in Mwanza in the next three years. The laboratory, according to a senior TMDA official, will be the centre of excellence for Africa as it is only Tanzania which will have that fest site. Ms Sophia Mziray, TMDA Lake Zone Manager, disclosed that procedures for having such a test bed started last year. They involve documentation, staff preparation to run the facility as well as carrying out feasibility study. The study aims at identifying equipment needed for establishing the laboratory. These procedures are done in line with the World Health Organisation (WHO) prequalification guidelines and the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) laboratory standards. The twin global organisations endorse and accredit the laboratories after having met international standards. This year the WHO will first undertake an assessment on each step of the TMDA’s procedures for establishing the lab. “These procedures would make results from our laboratory be recognised in any country in the world,” Ms Mziray told reporters in Mwanza yesterday. Currently, she said, the disinfectants and antiseptics are being tested in general laboratories, but the results from the specialised laboratory will be more accurate and reliable. Commenting on the benefits of the lab, TMDA Public Relations Manager Gaudensia Simwanza said the facility would bring assurance on quality and safety of medicines and medical devices in the country and Africa as a whole. “The results from the lab, recognised internationally, are considered final and trustful,” she stated. Tanzania will benefit from foreign currency earnings generated from the laboratory since other countries in Africa and beyond will be bringing their samples for testing. With the ongoing industrialisation drive in the country, the disinfectants and antiseptics produced and tested in the laboratory will earn trust in the international market. TMDA has already purchased a steam distiller for testing the amount of alcohol in hand sanitisers, which belong to the group of disinfectants. TMDA Head of laboratory department in the Lake Zone Mr Bugusu Nyamweru said the machine has been installed in the laboratory over the past eight months as part of efforts to have a specialised laboratory. “The high-tech machine simplifies work of testing as it takes only about four minutes to get results compared with the past when we spent over 10 minutes,” he said. He cited main customers for service of testing sanitisers as industries and entrepreneurs who produce detergents for domestic use. “We continue improving our area of testing disinfectants and antiseptics,” he said. The TMDA laboratory in Mwanza began its services three years ago and has already recorded significant achievements in terms of equipment following huge investments amounting to over 3bn/-.