KAGERA Regional Police Commander Revocatus Malimi has dispelled fears of insecurity during this festive season, saying government has laid concrete strategies to ensure peace prevails. He assured people that security has been tightened to ensure a peaceful festive season. He advised people to leave someone at their homes to avoid thieves breaking into their residential houses. He appealed to residents to uphold the existing peace and tranquility at this time when people celebrate New Year 2021. “My appeal to all residents is to ensure that national interest prevails. We must ensure that the prevailing peace and tranquility is sustained." On the other hand, he appealed to parents to ensure that they do not allow their children to go alone swimming on Lake Victoria to avoid drowning. He also cautioned drivers to avoid excessive drinking while on the wheel. Meanwhile, Bukoba Auxiliary Bishop Methodius Kilaini has appealed to Tanzanians to respect marriage ties as a fundamental institution of moulding good citizens. He equally urged parents to ensure good upbringing of their children and to uphold the existing peace and avoid allowing religion to divide them because they are all sons and daughters of one God. He noted that it was saddening that most parts of the world were engaged in fighting resulting in loss of millions of lives. “We should unite in celebrating this occasion. Tanzania, one of the most peaceful and politically stable African countries, offers an attractive investment climate, a rich and diverse natural resource base and a growing consumer market. It’s these widely acknowledged factors that have made the country a darling of foreign investors and multinational companies,” he said. He encouraged Christians to stay close to God, show love to neighbours as well as urging them to uphold religious values. “Right now there is freedom of worship, this is the right platform and it has to be used effectively,” he said. “The Church is committed to continue preaching peace and solidarity and serving human needs -- both spiritual and physical needs.” He appealed to residents in the region to take a holistic approach in eliminating gender-based violence against women and children.