KAGERA Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti has appealed to residents in the area to work hard and double production of food and cash crops, assuring them of government support in implementation of development projects to improve their economic growth. Equally, he urged the private sector to take advantage of immense opportunities in the tourism sector, particularly in promoting domestic tourism role in the economy Mr Gaguti welcomed investors both local and the diaspora to invest in the area while assuring them of government support. He explained that Kagera region was strategically situated due to its proximity to three East African Community (EAC) nations- Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda. “The government welcomes investors both local and the diaspora through construction of five star hotels and tour companies. The recent upgrading of Burigi- Chato, Rumanyika-Karagwe and Ibanda-Kyerwa National Parks and the newly rehabilitated MV Victoria Hapa Kazi Tu are suitable investment attractions. “We should unite in celebrating this occasion. People should work hard by doubling output of cash and food crops to improve their incomes. Residents on border areas should also embrace business opportunities available in their areas,” he said. Mr Gaguti made the remarks during a press conference he convened at his office yesterday, adding that direct coffee exports had benefitted the farmers. Equally, he stressed on the importance of establishing small and medium industries to enable the nation achieve its industrialization agenda. He revealed that during a five-year period (2020-2025), the government in collaboration with other stakeholders, including Tanzania Coffee Board (TCB), Café Africa Tanzania, TACRI, Cooperative Unions, Prisons Department and the private sector was keen to increase coffee production from 75,000 metric tonnes to 200,000 metric tonnes. “During the past three years, coffee production in the region increased from 52,000 tonnes during 2018/19 to 75,000 tonnes during 2020/2021. Farmers are encouraged to plant clonal coffee varieties which are resistant to coffee wild disease (CWD) for increased yields and earn more money,” he said. Coffee is grown in Bukoba, Muleba, Karagwe, Kyerwa, Ngara and Missenyi districts in the western areas along Lake Victoria. This constitutes 30 per cent of the total coffee production in Tanzania. However, for quite a long time the average production stood at 0.32 kg per tree due to lack of proper management while most of the coffee trees are over 60 years old. Key challenges experienced by smallholder farmers include poor extension services, high costs of inputs, adulterated inputs, low coffee price, and minimum level of engagement of youth in coffee production. Other challenges are poor institutional support, poor marketing systems and effects of climate changes. All these challenges have contributed to low coffee productivity, poor coffee quality, low farm gate prices and coffee racketeering.