RUMBLE in Dar boxing gala at Next Door Arena was too rewarding to Tanzanian boxers and boxing fans as it decorated them with high valued world titles. The beneficiaries of the maiden boxing gala were Ibrahim Class who won the World Boxing Federation title at continental and international levels and Jongo Shaaban who knocked out Shawn Miller of US in one-sided fight. Stylish Class won the title after outpointing Malawian Denis Mwale in the 12 round bout. It was one of the historic fights organised by Jackson Group that also brought many world class fighters on the ring and all bouts were aired in over 150 countries worldwide. Jongo registered TKO over Miller after the American picked an injury during the fight and the referee had to stop the fight to rescue the American. The multinational boxing gala was sponsored by Tanzania Tourism Board, CRDB Bank and Onomo Hotel. Speaking after the highly entertaining fight, Class said he had fought one of the best boxers in the region. “He was tireless and couldn’t go down after being punched, and managed to finish all 12 rounds,” said Class. The early rounds saw Mwale coming up strongly with good jabs, but none of them hit the intended target. Half way Ibrahim Class began to attack and scored good points while keeping far from Mwale’s counter- punches. Class has won the WBF title in Super feather weight category. Speaking after the fight Malawian said it was his first loss and lauded Class for winning. Jongo who won WBF International title in heavy weight said he was delighted to record a knockout in his early boxing career. Before meeting the American Jongo knocked out Alphonce Mchumiatumbo who was the the top-classed boxer in Tanzania. Jongo said his ambition is to be number One boxer in Tanzania and later on in the whole continent. Also entertained boxing fans was Tervel Pulev who knocked out Vikapita Merero of Namibia in the 9th round. Another Tanzanian, Nasibu Ramadhan also knocked out Nkosinati Biyana of South Afrika and their bout lasted only two rounds. Tanzanian Happy Daudi lost to Zambian Lolita Ndembo in the women bout. Jackson Group’s director Kelvin Twissa promised boxing fans to bring Rumble in Dar 2 in March this year. “We expect to have a better, superior Rumble in Dar in March as the maiden one has won the hearts of fans from 150 countries,” said Twissa.