NMB Bank donated 400 roofing materials to schools in Urambo District, Tabora Region, supporting Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa’s directive that all regions in the country with shortages of Form One classrooms should ensure they were constructed by February 28, 2021. Handing over the donation to Urambo District Commissioner Angerina Nkwingwa, NMB Western Region Manager Sospeter Magese said besides while they abided by their corporate social responsibility, the donation also meant to support the implementation of the Prime Minister’s directive. “Immediately after hearing the Prime Minister’s call, emphasising that all eligible schoolchildren for Form One must start their studies and not be delayed for lack of classrooms, we responded well.” Mr Majaliwa issued the directive on December 7, 2020 while addressing regional commissioners, the permanent secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, the permanent secretary the President’s Office (PMO-RALG) to ensure Form One students began their studies without delays. To ensure the Premier’s directive is implemented quickly, NMB Bank responded at the weekend after donating iron sheets worth 15 m/-. “Through this NMB Bank’s donation, we hope that this district is going to implement the directive of the Prime Minister on time and as soon as possible so that those selected to join Form One do so on time.” Receiving the iron sheets, DC Nkwingwa thanked the bank for continuing helping the district and urged other stakeholders to take a leaf from them. However, the DC warned students not to misuse tables and chairs so that they could last for a long time and help those joining Form One in the future. Meanwhile, the bank has provided emergency logistical assistance to the residents of Kipera Village and Kinyenze in Mvomero District, Morogoro Region, after 54 households were affected by heavy rain that damaged their houses and crops on January 9. 2021. Speaking at the handover of the materials to the DC at Kipera Village, NMB Bank Eastern Region Manager Dismas Prosper said after receiving information from the residents about their plight, the bank provided emergency assistance of 5m/-. He said the equipment included 54 dispensers, 110 iron sheets, 540kg of rice, 110 litres of edible oil and 160kg of sugar to be distributed to affected families. “NMB Bank has been providing various logistical support to the community affected by disasters and today we have donated 5m/- equipment, which we believe will be distribute to the affected families,” said Mr Prosper. For his part, Ward Executive Officer Anuciata Mpina said on the day, heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds, damaged 54 households, rendering 318 villagers homeless. Mvomero District Commissioner Albanus Mgonya said after the downpour, the protection and security committee visited the homes of 318 affected families and urged all those affected not to return to the houses, but seek refuge to safer areas. He thanked the bank for the support that would to help those affected by the rainstorm.