THE Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner, Dr Anna Mghwira has commended Tanzania Standard Newspapers Limited (TSN) for its creativity and devotion on its operations, calling on the company’s management to advertise itself in order to attract more printing businesses. Dr Mgwhira made the remark yesterday when she toured TSN offices, the publisher of Daily News, HabariLeo, Sunday News, HabariLeo Jumapili and SportsLeo, to exchange ideas with the management and learn various activities carried out by the company. She said despite the presence of many media outlets in the country, the government-owned newspapers were still trusted to have the best and most trusted information by readers, while praising creative writing in the newspapers and its online services. The RC however said that in order to promote the country’s economic growth, Kilimanjaro Region has invested heavily in mining at Same District, as well as ginger products. Dr Mgwhira noted that in the past two years since the discovery of the minerals, the region has opened mineral centres in the district where people can sell the minerals and benefit from the resources. She said in order to ensure that citizens grow more economically; the region has enabled them to obtain permits of selling the minerals to neighbouring regions, a move that has benefited majority of them. With regard to ginger, she said the crop has contributed to employment for Same residents. She further said that vanilla crop is gaining momentum and attracting more growers, adding that farmers have seen the benefits of vanilla as a great opportunity. She said the region has large farms that employ more than 2,000 people, giving an example of a flower garden that has 800 employees, while expressing displeasure at the lack of adequate factories in the region. She said the region has decided to further develop the livestock sector, especially native livestock to create employment for factories which will be built, and assured them of adequate electricity supply from Nyumba ya Mungu Dam. The General Manager of Kilimanjaro Commercial Bank (KCBL), Godfrey Ng’urah, who accompanied the RC, said the bank plans to restore the 70s cooperative societies. “When we are talking about Kilimanjaro Region, we cannot avoid talking about co-operatives. Kilimanjaro is the centre of cooperation since time immemorial,” said Ng’urah, adding that they will travel around the country to repatriate cooperatives and farmers will benefit from their products.