THE Court of Appeal has confirmed the death sentence imposed on a resident of Dar es Salaam, Msafiri Daniel, for killing a taxi driver, Ally Hemed, during robbery of a motor vehicle which he was driving. Justices Rehema Mkuye, Ignas Kitus and Barke Sahel ruled against Daniel, the appellant, after dismissing his appeal he had lodged to challenge the findings of the High Court. "It is our judgment that this appeal has no merit and we accordingly dismiss it," they declared in their judgement. During hearing of the appeal, counsel for the appellant challenged the application of the doctrine of recent possession invoked by the trial court on the ground that the prosecution did not establish the identity of the motor vehicle. In their judgment delivered recently, the justices pointed out that basically, the doctrine was part of the rule of circumstantial evidence and it simply meant that there would be a presumption of guilt against a person found in possession of a thing which had recently been stolen from a victim of an offence. They noted that the deceased was using the motor vehicle to earn a living as a taxi driver and the fact that on the material date he went missing was not challenged. "Neither did anyone contradict the police officers from Buguruni Police Station that when the deceased was found in bad shape, the motor vehicle was missing. Thus, there is evidence that immediately before his death the deceased had been in possession of the motor vehicle," the justices said. In view of those conclusions, they found no merit in the complaint by the appellant that the doctrine of recent possession was not correctly invoked. The deceased was a taxi driver and he was using a Nissan Cetaro motor vehicle, which belonged to his father. On November 9, 2013, the wife of the deceased reported to the father that her husband had not returned home since he left the previous day and that he was not accessible even on his mobile phone. Enquiries were made to trace him, but in vain. Eventually, the father reported his son's disappearance to the police at Buguruni Station in Dar es Salaam. On the same date, a detective corporal, who reported on duty at the police station was informed of a motor vehicle been spotted the previous night from which a person had been thrown out. The policeman and his fellow officers went to a place near Kiwalani, where they found a badly wounded male groaning in pain and incapable of talking. The police took the man to Amana Hospital from where he was later transferred to Muhimbili National Hospital where he subsequently died. That man turned out to be Ally Hemed, the deceased. Meanwhile, on November 11, 2013 at night, a motorcyclist operating in Chalinze Township in Coast Region, was riding along Chalinze-Arusha Road. About a kilometre from Chalinze Centre, he saw a motor vehicle parked on the roadside and one of the occupants stopped him. When the man stopped he could see that there were about six people in that motor vehicle. The man, who had stopped the motorcyclist, asked him to go and get a mechanic, who would fix a defect in the motor vehicle. The latter agreed and the two exchanged telephone contacts as he left. While he was out looking for a mechanic, the man who had requested for that service called the motorcyclist and asked him to get a buyer of scrap motor vehicles in alternative to a mechanic. Suspicion got the best of him after being given that option because he felt that those people were for something illegal. The motorcyclist went to Chalinze Police Station and reported the matter. One senior police officer, who attended to motorcyclist, had to pose as the interested buyer of scrap motor vehicles when they went to the place where the motor vehicle was. When they got there, only two people were found in the place and not six seen earlier. The two people were the appellant and Jailos Aidan. According to witnesses, the motor vehicle (IT 1340), which were temporary registration numbers were used for motor vehicles being transported to other countries. However, there were other plate numbers inside that motor vehicle, including T864 AHQ, the same as the one that had been stolen from the deceased. The police arrested the two men after suspecting them of being in possession of property suspected to have been stolen or otherwise unlawfully acquired. When the Chalinze police got to know that there was a case involving the same motor vehicle in Dar es Salaam, they handed over the suspects to their counterparts from Dar es Salaam.