MWANZA-based Tandabui Institute of Health Sciences & Technology (TIHEST)—a private health and social science institute is expected to award over 100 scholarships to students from poor families. This is a special programme designed to support President John Magufuli’s free education policy and drive to uplift the livelihoods of low-income Tanzanians. “Our President has shown kindness to help poor Tanzanians and we, as an institute, would like to support this well-intended initiative,” said TIHEST Principal Emmanuel Magubu in an official statement circulated to the media yesterday. As part of the implementation of its programme, TIHEST expects to provide scholarships to more than 100 students from poor families to study various health and related courses at the institute. The scholarships will be announced officially during the TIHEST’s 8th graduation ceremony in Mwanza on Friday. According to the principal, TIHEST’s support to poor students started a long time ago. “What we are doing now, is to re-shape the programme to reach out to more beneficiaries and make it sustainable,” he said. To date TIHEST management has provided assistance to more than 2,000 students to study various healthcare courses free of charge since the institute’s inception in 2012. “We are reviewing the structure and systems of our scholarship programme so that we may reach out to as many needy students as possible,” said the principal. Latest 100 scholarships expected to be announced during the graduation are part of the institute’s strategy to groom more health experts who will help many poor Tanzanians to access better health services. “Good health is central to the realisation of President Magufuli’s resolve to assist the poor and industrial development,” said TIHEST principal, adding that “efficiency in all sectors of the economy depends on healthy citizens, capable of working hard and bringing about development.” TIHEST supports President Magufuli’s drive to help poor Tanzanians, says Magubu, adding “that’s we providing scholarships to poor students and produce health experts who can better services to Tanzania, thus contribute to the realisation of our dream of industrial economy.” “We, as an institute, are doing business, but we have this programme of scholarships to help students from poor families to help implement the fifth phase government strategies that aim at increasing the number of health experts and ultimately enable the nation to make great strides in development,” said the principal. The scholarship programme, according to the principal, was pioneered by the founder of TIHEST, Dr Kavit Mushi, “who had a dream to ensure students from poor families won’t fail to access better education due to their financial constraints.” Mr Andrew Charles, one of the beneficiaries of the TIHEST scholarships, said “my parents are poor and unable to pay my school fees, but I have studied a diploma course through the help of TIHEST.” “I had a dream to be a doctor, but was unable to realise it due to financial limitations. I thank TIHEST for enabling me to study higher education free of charge and be able to realise my dream,” Mr Hassan Mohamed, another beneficiary of the TIHEST scholarships programme, said.