THE Scolastica Investment Company Limited, whose Director, (Edward Shayo), was jailed four years for assisting in murder, has lost ownership of 30 acres of land located at Himo area within Moshi District, Kilimanjaro Region, allegedly acquired for construction of schools. This followed the decision given by the  High Court, Moshi District Registry, to dismiss with costs the suit lodged by the company, the plaintiff, which runs and owns the Scolastica Schools, including nursery, Primary and Secondary situated in Himo, of which Mr Shayo is the director and a manager. Judge Suzan Mkapa ruled in favour of Moshi-based prominent businessman, Mr Fredrick Kisamo, who was defendant into the land dispute, after holding that the investment company, the plaintiff, lacked locus to either entertain the suit or claim ownership of the land in question. "Locus standi is pertinent in every proceedings in order to establish whether or not a person, be it in natural or legal entity, has a capacity to sue and in order to have such capacity, that person must be able to demonstrate that his interests or rights have been breached or interfered with," she said. The judge found that the plaintiff was not the lawful owner of the land in question for lack of locus standi. She, thus, proceeded to dismiss the suit with costs to be awarded to the defendant, who was being represented by seasoned lawyer from Makoa Attorney, Engineer Joseph Ngiloi. According to the judge, the plaintiff was incorporated on March 15, 2005 and in proving ownership of the land summoned four witnesses and tendered five exhibits, which she considered as critical evidence. Such evidence was corroborated by testimony establishing that the certificate of occupancy regarding the land along Kilototoni Village, Moshi was issued in 2004 in the name of Scolastica Foundation. The plaintiff witnesses had contended that they acquired the land after complying with the application process through the village government, which undisputedly allocated them the same in 2004 and they have since enjoyed peaceful and undisturbed physical possession. On the other hand, the defendant had disputed the plaintiff's testimony and claimed that he inherited the suit land from his father in 1967, and tendered several exhibits to support his contention and summoned three witnesses. In her judgment, the judge noted that the evidence tendered undoubtedly established the fact that Scolastica Foundation, which is another juristic or legal person, is considered to be the lawful owner of the suit property. "However, no material evidence had been adduced to the effect that the suit land acquired by the said Scolastica Foundation did pass on to the plaintiff. Thus, it is established the fact that the plaintiff is the owner of the suit land," she said. The judge’s attention was drawn by the fact that the plaintiff was not even in existence when the suit land was allocated in 2004, because the plaintiff was incorporated in 2005 and that is what is contained in the exhibit tendered is evidence, that the owner of the land is a different person other than the plaintiff. It is alleged that the suit land was an open space earmarked for village development projects. The plaintiff claimed that he had applied for and was granted ownership of the same for construction of a secondary school after fulfilling all mandatory requirements through the village council. During the hearing, Mr Shayo had testified that he resides in Himo town, as businessman and owner of Scolastica Schools. His business is known as Scolastica Investment Company Limited dealing with hardware and runs schools.