SIMIYU Cooperative Union (SIMCU) 2018 Limited Chairperson, Charles Madata has been suspended to pave the way for investigation into theft scandals. Acting SIMCU Manager Ednard Magenda told reporters on Monday that Mr Madata was allegedly implicated in various theft scandals, including money swindling. The chairperson is alleged to have swindled cash awards for best cotton growers in Simiyu Region issued by the cooperative. It was alleged that he reduced the prize amount and cashed the difference. “The cooperative issued a 500,000/- award package for the overall winner, Mr Sendama Nzumbi, but the chairperson handled him only 100,000/-, pocketing the remaining 400,000/- . The second winner, Mr Gwishida Hunge, was supposed to receive 300,000/-, but got only 100, 000/-.” “The package for the third winner, Mr Makoye Ngaga, was 100,000/-, but received nothing,” the acting manager alleged further. Mr Madata was also alleged to have been involved in the theft of a mobile phone belonging to the manager of Shinyanga Region Cooperative Union (shirecu1984) Limited, Mr Mzee Muhangwa, at one of the cooperative meetings in Dodoma. Apparently, after police investigation and inspection Mr Madata was found with the stolen phone when he was back home (Bariadi-Simiyu) after the meeting in Dodoma. He returned the phone to the owner and the matter was amicably settled, said the SIMCU acting manager. It was further alleged that the chairman had forged the signature of Nasa Agricultural Marketing Cooperative Societies (Amcos) worker, Deogratius Faini and swindled his 295,911/- salary for December of 2019. “There is a series of scandals that have caused the board to suspend him this Monday. He has been suspended until further notice,” said the SIMCU acting manager. Responding to the allegations, Mr Madata refuted the allegations, saying no any SIMCU board meeting had ever been convened him for interrogating him. “I’m saddened by these allegations. It is an organised mission to tarnish my image. I know nothing about all these, be it cotton growers’ money or the mobile phone,’’ said Mr Madata. Senior Investigator for Regional Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Aquilinus Shiduki said further investigations for the suspended chairperson were underway and a report would be released soon.