THE Deputy Minister of Livestock and Fisheries, Ms Pauline Gekul has issued a seven-day ultimatum to Ilala District Executive Director to clear a sum of 5bn/-owed by the contractor of Vingunguti abattoir for completion of the project. Ms Gekul issued the ultimatum when she went to inspect the development of the project recently in Dar es Salaam. She said animals are currently being slaughtered in unsafe environment because the condition of most slaughter houses is not encouraging, citing that the Vingunguti abattoir is going to be a savior to the whole country, particularly Dar es Salaam. “The DED should ensure the money is paid within seven days from (today) Friday for the job to be completed as per President John Magufuli’s directive,” said Ms Gekul. She emphasized that completion of the project should go hand in hand with the procurement of special vehicles for supplying meat. According to her, it will not make sense having a good abattoir while meat is still supplied in the butchers using ‘boda bodas’. She said Pugu auction will undergo major improvement to ensure the abattoir has access to a good and quality animal supply to cater for the demands of consumers. The Deputy Minister applauded the DED and contractor for the huge efforts being put in finalizing the project, urging them to speed up the construction. The Project Supervisor from the National Housing Corporation, Eng Efraim Phanuel pledged to ensure the project is completed by February if the minister’s directive is implemented. Last year when the former Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Abdallah Ulega made a tour of the abattoir, he said the popular slaughter house will serve Dar es residents, neighbouring regions as well as importing meat to neighbouring countries. “Completion of this facility will increase meat supply and sell outside the country, including in Arab nations,” Mr Ulega said. Among other factors, the slaughterhouse is strategically positioned since it is located near the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), which makes it easy to transport the meat. Mr Ulega encouraged local investors with capital to invest in cold storage facilities at the new abattoir, saying it will be another opportunity for investors. The new facility will have a capacity to slaughter 1500 cows and 1000 goats every day. The country has been spending over 10bn/- on importing meat, but the deputy minister expressed hopes that the construction of the new abattoir will completely end importation of meat. This is despite the fact that Tanzania has a high population of cows and goats, totalling 35 million and 20 million, respectively.