PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed Ruangwa District Executive Director (DED) Frank Chonya to encourage citizens to enroll into the Community Health Fund (CHF) for reliable access to health services. Premier Majaliwa said the government is currently in the process of implementing a countrywide universal health coverage plan for all, therefore it is important for people to join CHF to enable them acquire free health services for the whole year. Mr Majaliwa issued the directive here on Wednesday while speaking to members of the Ruangwa District Hospital staff during his tour in Lindi region. “The Director should ensure all funds collected through the CHF are properly coordinated and utilized as intended. CHF is a savior in the provision of health services to the people; they must be encouraged to enroll,” said Mr Majaliwa. He also directed Ruangwa District Chief Medical Officer, Dr Savio Wikesi to keenly manage service delivery to patients, warning a section of the staff who use provocative language to people going for treatment. “Concerns have been raised regarding the unpleasant habit by some hospital staff to patients, everyone should assess themselves. Service delivery should not be taken for granted, it needs people who can offer themselves to others,” noted the PM. Mr Majaliwa expressed the commitment of President John Magufuli and that of the 2020- 2025 CCM manifesto, directing each village to acquire a dispensary. He, thus, directed councillors to prioritize the construction of dispensaries in their development plans. In another development, Mr Majaliwa addressed the residents of Nachingwea ward within Ruangwa district, pledging to continue supporting various development projects. “I will continue to be your noble servant, I call on your collaboration for the development of Ruangwa,” asserted Mr Majaliwa. He identified some of the priority areas in the current phase, including strengthening service delivery in offering clean and safe water, education and health.