HERE comes the year 2021, brightly colored with football and boxing, the two sports that did well for Tanzania at the regional and global levels. Heading to 2021, Tanzania’s envoys in the continental level football tournaments, Simba and Namungo must have learnt well that nothing short of hard work, thorough planning and extra effort plays a vital role towards the desired goals. Simba who are very close to qualifying to the CAF Champions League are facing FC Platinum of Zimbabwe after eliminating Plateau United of Nigeria while Namungo defeated Al Rabita of South Sudan before later taking on El Hilal El Obeid of Sudan. Following their promising performance in both CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup, the teams seem to have prepared well their squads that can make the country proud. To avoid this season’s hoodoo, our teams had lengthy time to hone their skills for the looming events, so it is our belief that they are up to the challenge. The New Year has come at a time when Premier League teams are fully engaged in handpicking best players who will serve them effectively before the mini transfer window is closed down. We would like to warn the teams featuring in the Premier League this season to be serious as competitors so that they can end Simba-Yanga monopoly when it comes to the continental level events. Players in the teams should strive to demonstrate their skills at both individual and teamwork basis, since the ongoing Premier League also serves as a good market for talented players. We don’t have to think much to see what the country reaped from the 2020-21 league season, as the country’s performance in the COSAFA Cup, CECAFA Under- 20 and Under 17 tells it all. We would again insist that players who are engaged in the league and the CAF level tournaments should work hard for their teams and their country, because we have witnessed that the success of the teams pays the nation handsomely as an entertainment and source of income. We end up by wishing all our sportsmen and women, sports stakeholders and sponsors all the best in 2021.