PRESIDENT John Magufuli has ordered swift completion of Chato Zonal Referral Hospital, so that people in Geita Region and the neighbouring areas could immediately receive much-needed medical services. The Head of State directed officials in the ministry of Health to expedite the construction of the new state-of-the-art hospital, which will massively improve healthcare services in the Lake Zone, with a population estimated at 15 million people. In support of President Magufuli’s order, the visiting President of Mozambique Filipe Nyusi also called on the ministry to fast track the construction work, as he lauded his host for his continuous efforts to improve social services, including healthcare provision. The two Heads of State made the remarks when laying a foundation stone for the construction of the referral hospital. The laying of a foundation stone was done by Mr Nyusi in the company of his host Dr Magufuli. Addressing Chato residents immediately after the exercise, Mr Nyusi asked the contractor executing the project----the Tanzania Building Agency, to increase pace in the construction of state-of-the-art hospital because he had been accorded a respect to lay a foundation stone at the facility. “I will be calling President Magufuli every Saturday to ask him on the progress of the construction because we cannot come here to bless this important matter then it ends up in total shame,” he noted. Dr Magufuli had issued similar sentiments, saying he would deal with officials in the ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, who would delay the construction process. President Magufuli said he wanted to see the construction expedited and completed immediately so that people in Geita Region and its environs were getting medical services. Apart from improving overall health services delivery across the densely populated Lake Zone region, this ultra-modern hospital will also decongest Mwanza-based Bugando Medical Centre. The Head of State was opposed to a plan by the ministry of health to have the construction of the hospital done in three phases, as it was presented by the Minister in the docket, Dr Dorothy Gwajima, when presenting the construction report before the two presidents. According to Dr Gwajima, initially, the plan was that the construction be done in three phases, whereas the first phase which is expected to spend about 16bn/- upon completion by March 2021 had now reached 90 per cent. According to the minister, the construction exercise was now pending the second and third phases respectively under the contractor, TBA. But, Dr Magufuli was not supporting the construction of the modern medical facility in phases. Instead, he directed that the construction should be done concurrently. Mozambican President, Mr Nyusi and his delegation arrived in the country on Monday morning for a two-day State visit. The plane carrying Mr Nyusi touched down at Geita- Chato Airport at 11:00 am, where he was received by his host, Dr Magufuli. Upon arrival at the airport, he received the presidential salute from a special guard of honour from the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF). He later proceeded to lay a foundation stone at Chato Zonal Referral Hospital before holding talks with his Tanzanian counterpart.