THE Police Force in Dar es Salaam has sacked four police officers, just a day after four others were terminated from service in Arusha Region on Thursday for breach of code of conduct, involvement in thievery and corruption. The termination of the four police officers from service was disclosed yesterday when Minister for Home Affairs, Mr George Simbachawene toured the headquarters of Dar es Salaam Special Police Zone and other departments. According to the minister, the government will not tolerate any police officer who violates the code of conduct of the profession, cautioning that any officer who indulges in immoral acts will face legal consequences, including expulsion. “Four police officers in Dar es Salaam Special Police Zone have been expelled for going against code of conduct. Corruption, theft and involvement in acts that mistreat people will not be tolerated any more in the Police Force,” the minister firmly stated at the zone’s headquarters yesterday. He said the Police Force must be shaped, a measure that must start with heads of police stations by strongly discouraging their acts and behaviours that violate the code of conduct, including denying people their rights. “Some immoral officers who head police stations conduct brutal acts of detaining people on baseless accounts and demanding for bribes before setting them free. Their days are numbered,” the minister said. The minister, however, did not reveal the names of the police officers who were expelled. The minister complimented police officers for performing their duties with success despite having some few errant elements among them. He said despite such few elements among police officers, the Police Force has not been derailed in executing its core duty, a spirit that has seen armed robberies in Dar es Salaam Region being tamed. On Thursday, police in Arusha sacked four officers due to indiscipline and involvement in acts of theft and corruption. One of the officers was sacked after being found in possession of banned sachets of illicit brew and bhang, jerry cans of diesel and petrol and short circuiting power for the objective of avoiding bills. Speaking on marine security, the minister said police captured over 100 pirates on the Indian Ocean within Tanzanian borders in the past one year. The commander of Police Force’s Marine Unit, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Evance Mwijage told Minister Simbachawene that apprehension of the pirates went hand in hand with confiscation of illegally obtained products and shipping equipment. “We have also confiscated numerous ships and boats used by pirates in committing offences in the sea,” the Marine Unit Commander said.