Mr John Mnali THE government has picked Mr John Mnali as the new Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) Director-General in the acting capacity. Mr Mnali is replacing Col (rtd) Joseph Simbakalia, who served EPZA for six years from November 2014 where he was given a five-year term contract that ended in November 2019. Speaking at a handover ceremony in Dar es Salaam at the weekend, Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade Exaud Kigahe instructed EPZA to develop all undeveloped plots to attract more foreign and domestic direct investments. He urged EPZA to collaborate with local government authorities and create a favourable investment environment on its plots, which would also help resolve land disputes. The deputy minister was of the view that EPZA had a crucial role to play in facilitating the country’s industrial economy, urging all members of staff to discharge their duties accordingly. “The new director-general has a challenge to come up with new plans that will see all undeveloped plots attracting and supporting investments. We have to utilise our resources,” he said. He added that for the country to have sustainable development, it needed to allocate more special economic zones with a favourable environment for investments. Mr Kigahe also commended the outgoing EPZA boss for transforming the institution and dedication for the betterment of the country’s industrialisation. “He was asked to continue with his role as the government is looking for his successor. He has, indeed, done a good job in shaping the institution,” noted the deputy minister. The deputy minister reminded EPZA members of staff to work diligently and with integrity and that those abusing their office would face legal action. Speaking before handing over the office, Mr Simbakalia asked his successor to ensure the government’s industrial economy was achieved by continuing creating a favourable investment environment. “You have to work according to the EPZA Act, rules and regulations. This institution is essential for building a competitive industrial economy,” he said, thanking staff members for cooperation during his tenure of office. For his part, Mr Mnali thanked Minister for Industry and Trade Geoffrey Mwambe for the appointment, pledging to work according to the law and put forward national interests in his new post. “I ask for cooperation from my fellow staff members as I assure them of my support in achieving the mission and vision of EPZA,” he said. EPZA is an autonomous government agency responsible for steering and implementing government policy in the promotion of EPZs in Tanzania.