AS January races on to its halfway, Happy New greetings become fewer and fewer. However, it was charming to get this one from a colleague on Facebook: “Happy New Year 2021 to All My ‘Funs’ of F.B.” It must be fun to have lots of fans on Facebook, but that does not convert them into funs. Indeed “fun” as a noun is uncountable, so there is no change of having many “funs”. As such, dear colleague, your admirers or followers on Facebook are your “fans”, not “funs”. Schools are opening soon, and it is now common to read about this or that official or dignitary inspecting school construction and giving an order or two about immediate completion, or rectification of shoddy work. In January 2021, HE the Prime Minister ordered the Tunduru District Executive Director (DED) to give a vehicle to Tunduru High School. The order was implemented on January 5 as is reported in the Custodian (January 6, p. 7) in an article entitled: “DED hands over vehicle to Tunduru High School”. The school did have two vehicles before, but, according to the reporter, they “‘where’ all damaged beyond ‘repairs’”. We believe that the school carried out repairs on the vehicles from time to time. But, there comes a time when a vehicle is so badly damaged that it cannot be repaired. In that case we say: “it is beyond repair”. We do not say: “it is beyond repairs’. Thus, our writer should have reported that: “The two vehicles were (not ‘where’) ‘both’ damaged beyond repair”. Note that we have used “both” instead of “all”, because we are talking about just two vehicles. From Tunduru, we go to Kagera Region. We come across news on “caning”, a household word these days. A Custodian reporter penned this story entitled: “Kagera Region man in police hands over assault leading to the death of his own son”. OK we have the adage: “Spare the rod, spoil the child”, but sometimes, this can result into disaster. According to the reporter, a Standard IV pupil “left home for a walk without permission and returned home at 3.00pm”. “Left home”, “returned home”, surely we could do without one of the “home”s. How about saying: “the student left home for a walk and was not back until 3.00pm”. This did not please dad, and this is what the reporter presented to the readers: “When the child was questioned by his father, he failed to provide acceptable answers, hence started beating him with a stick without mercy after which he went to bed to sleep”. There are a number of interesting things here, key among them being this idea of “going to bed to sleep”. “Go to bed” means “lie down in one’s bed to sleep”. When the reporter talked about the pupil’s dad “going to bed to sleep”, he was using two words too many. After thoroughly caning his son, dad went to bed. This means he took the necessary steps to get himself to sleep. We end up looking at this news item from Zanzibar, titled: “Control the influx of substandard food products into Zanzibar”, in which a reporter quotes an official of the Zanzibar Food and Drugs Agency as saying: “It is important to be careful in controlling the importation and sale of expired products in various stores, especially food products such as rice, wheat and ‘other food products’” Note that the word “products” is used three times in this short sentence. Note as well that once you say: “food products such as rice, wheat” you have no reason to say “and other food products”, since, “such as” implies that indeed there are other food products that you have not mentioned: “Especially food products such as rice and wheat”, is adequate. Congratulations Simba Fans! lusuggakironde@gmail.com