RUKWA Regional Commissioner (RC) Joachim Wangabo has instructed Kalambo District Commissioner Carolius Misungwi and Executive Council Director Palela Ponela to ensure the construction of classrooms and other school structures in their jurisdictions are completed in this month. Mr Wangabo issued the directive following his visit to the sites which he was disappointed at the slow progress of the project. The RC said the fifth phase government had disbursed more than 1.5bn/- for the construction of school infrastructures over six months ago, yet nothing tangible had been done so far. Latest statistics show that Kalambo District has a shortage of 18 classrooms and 2,617 chairs and tables for 3,759 pupils selected to join Form One this year. Yet, about 254 school leavers are waiting for second selection to join Form One this year due to a shortage of classrooms and desks. In light of this, Mr Wangabo said the slow progress of the construction of classrooms may lead to 254 school leavers failing to join Form One this year. "Nkasi and Sumbawanga district councils are doing well so far because the construction of classrooms has reached 90 per cent. It’s disheartening to see that Kalambo District Council has reached only 40 per cent. This is unacceptable. Authorities must show seriousness in this," reacted the RC. His reaction came after he visited and inspected ongoing construction works at Matai, Mwazye and Mambwe secondary schools and  Sopa Primary School. Mr Wangabo said he was aware that the government had already disbursed over 66.6m/- for construction of latrines and classrooms at Sopa Primary School and so far more than 43.8m/- had been spent. He also told the DC and DED to ensure value for money was reflected in all school structures whose construction is underway, warning to assign experts to probe fund expenditure if there were any discrepancies. He also handed over 30 bags of cement to Mr Misungwi for the construction of classrooms to address a shortage of five classrooms in the area. Earlier, DC Misungwi told the RC that out of 66.6m/-, which the district received from the central government, they would spend 60m/- for construction of three classrooms and the remaining 6.6m/ for the construction of latrines at Sopa Primary School. About 43.79m/- has been spent on the construction of three classrooms and 2.8m/- has been spent on the construction of nine latrines. 