TANZANIAN envoys in CAF Champions League, Simba have launched Super Cup, an international tournament that aims to drill the team for Africa’s biggest club level showpiece. The Super Cup is genuinely tailor-made as it will involve the rivals of Simba’s opponents in the group stage of the Champions League whose kick off is next month. That was disclosed by the team’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Barbara Gonzalez insisting the teams invited to play in the Super Cup are also engaged in the CAF level championship. She named the teams as TP Mazembe, the DR Congo giants and one of the most successful clubs in the continent and Sudan’s El Hilal who are traditional rivals of Mereikh, placed in the same group with Simba. “ We have decided to come with this tournament dubbed ‘ Simba Super Cup ‘ as part of our team’s preparation for the group stage which is scheduled to commence next month,” she disclosed. According to the CEO, the tournament will kick off in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday next week and the invited teams are scheduled to jet in a day before the kickoff. Simba start with Al Hilal before facing TP Mazembe. And the next game of the three- day tournament will be between Al –Hilal and TP Mazembe on Friday, and in the final day Simba will face TP Mazembe at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday January 31. Additionally, the club’s Head of Information and communication, Haji Manara disclosed that the invited teams are among the big teams and both have succeed to play in the last 16 of the Champions League. Manara also unveiled that the eagerly awaited club’s new head coach to replace the Belgian tactician Sven Vandenbroeck who parted ways with the club early this month, will be known after 48 hours from yesterday. “ We know our supporters are eager to know who will lead the technical bench, we ask them to be patient as his name will be disclosed soon and well two of his assistants who will team up will the assistant coach Selemani Matola,” he said. According to Manara the club will start by unveiling the assistant coaches today before naming one of the continental football experience coach as the Head coach. Speaking of the tournament Manara said the club will also unveil some of their newly signed players who have been recruited to strengthen the team for the Champions League and other competitions and urged their supporters to support the team as their usual tradition. He also reminded the club supporters that the aim of the club is to prepare the team so as it can achieve the three targets of the club for this season which are to reach Champions League semis, reclaim the Mainland League and FA Cup titles. “The targets which will be tasked to the new Head coach and his technical bench,” Manara added. Simba are expected to pitch a camp in Dar es Salaam to drill players for the Super Cup. The club also broke ice on the Ghanaian midfielder Bernard Morrison saying he is still a club’s player and will be among the players who will enter residential camp. The Super Cup will be annually held but the target of each edition will change according to the time.