TRADERS in Kagera Region have appealed to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to conduct scrutiny on the quality of Electronic Fiscal Devices (EFDs) being imported in the country to avoid the increasing loss they face due to faulty machines. Equally, they recommended TRA to supervise the distribution of EFDs to different areas facing shortages. These were among recommendations made by a section of business people who attended an orientation seminar conducted by TRA on proper usage of EFDs held in Bukoba Municipal Council recently. Philbert Vedasto, who owns Mavuno Company based in Bukoba Municipality, explained that the frequent breakdown of EFDs was due to poor quality. “Some EFDs and roller papers are of poor quality. Fake rollers damage printers, costing at least 150,000/- for maintenance,” he said. Mr Titus Kamwamwa revealed that there are only four registered EFD distributors in Kagera Region, namely Advanced Office Supply Company Ltd, Pergamony Co Ltd, Total Fiscal Solution and Bukoba Computers Co Ltd. Kagera Regional TRA Taxpayers’ Education Officer, Mr Alex Mwambenja allayed their fears, noting that the advantage of using EFDs is that it enabled a business person to keep proper records of his/her business, which in turn enabled TRA to make tax assessment. He made the remarks while addressing a section of business people who attended a one-day seminar held in Bukoba Municipal Council. “EFDs enable a business person to keep correct business records, and this in turn enables TRA to make correct tax assessment. The records can also enable him/her to get loans from financial institutions,” he said. However, he warned that it was an offence for a person with a business annual turnover of 14m/- to neglect using EFD, adding that such offender is punishable to a fine ranging between 3m/ to 4.5m/-, or imprisonment of up to three years or both. Similar punishment also applies to business people who tamper with EFDs, he said. He listed other offences to include operating a business without EFDs, a customer neglecting to collect a receipt, failure to submit tax returns to TRA, and failure to inform TRA when the EFD machine is out of order. Mr Mwambenja reminded the business people that EFDs were of great importance because they enable the government to collect correct taxes, which in turn are used to render services to all Tanzanians.