SAUTI za Busara Festival which attracts multinationals will be staged for two days in Zanzibar instead of four days due to the Covid- 19 threat. This year’s edition which goes with the motto ‘Our Environment, Our Life’ is scheduled to shake the Isles on February 12th and 13th at Ngome Kongwe(Old Fort) whereby the main stage will host only 14 shows. And performers come from Zanzibar, Tanzania Mainland, Uganda, South Africa, Mozambique, Ghana, Reunion Island, Morocco and Algeria. According to the organisers, the Festival will be preceded with the Busara Xtra events which will take place across Zanzibar from February 7th to 14th and will be organised by the local community. Speaking about this year edition, the festival founder, Yusuf Mahmoud alias Dj Yusuf named Dulla Makabila, Barnaba Classic and Richie Lumambo from Tanzania Mainland as among the performers during the festival which focuses on promoting original music of the different countries. He added that they have given the platform to Dulla Makabila who is among the top singers of Singeli, one of the newly established music genre. That will give him an opportunity to showcase his singing and dancing skills. Adding, he said Bongofleva music has been highly favoured and promoted in various Busara editions and this year Barnaba will bring the Bongo Flavor taste in the festival which will be 100 per cent live on stage. He as well named other artistes as Siti Muharam the granddaughter of the late Taarab Musician in Zanzibar, Siti Bint Saad and Stone Town Rockerz and Tofa Bo also as the hosts of the event. Normally the festival takes four days, accompanied by different cultural activities like the movers and shakers, cultural parade, arts workshops and other related activities. But due to corona pandemic this year’s festival will take place in two days and all the mentioned cultural activities won’t take place. Dj Yusuph said the intention is to protect people from Covid-19 which he believes it does not exist in Zanzibar but due to the influx of different artistes and guests from abroad there is a need to take precautions. Other artists that will participate are Yugen Blakrok (South Africa), Morena Leraba (Lesotho), Djam, (Algeria) Sika Kokoo (Ghana) Dawda Jobarten (Gambia), Sandra Nankoma (Uganda), Dogo Fara (Reunion). Sauti za Busara is a pan-African music festival organised annually in February by Busara Promotions, a non-profit NGO registered in Zanzibar. Celebrating cultural diversity and live performance, the event provides employment for an East Africa music industry in exchange with other regions