THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR) President, Sylvain Oré has emphasised on African Union (AU) Member States’ commitment in upholding justice on the continent. In his new year message availed to the media, Justice Oré underpinned that the judicial work of the Court will not be effective without the input and commitment of all stakeholders, including AU Member States. “On this point, the challenges are numerous, as evidenced by the high percentage of decisions that remain unimplemented and the flurry of withdrawals of the Declaration by some States, which suggest the beginnings of a serious crisis of trust that, fortunately, can be contained,” opined Dr Oré. The AfCHPR President cautioned that non-execution of the decisions of bodies vested with a human rights mandate by the States concerned posed a threat to the human rights protection system in Africa, further noting the need to initiate serious reflections on the future of the decisions in order to raise, through their effective implementation, the level of human rights protection, strengthen confidence in institutions and to meet the challenges of the AU’s judicial organ mission. “We must further develop a democratic culture by giving force to the law, as well as to judicial and democratic institutions… without a judicial culture, respect for human rights and for the laws that constitute the key link to the rule of law and peace will be but an illusion,” he stressed. Justice Oré further called for a renewed dynamism by bringing innovations to bear on it, with a view to improving the quality of its performance both in its judicial and administrative functions. The AfCHPR revealed that the year 2021 marked the beginning of its 2021-2025 Five-Year Plan, which is the third in a series, as well as the 15 years of its establishment. According to him, the AU judicial organ will this year build on the progress already made in the accomplishment of its mission, focus its action on areas like strengthening inter-institutional cooperation and complementarity, consolidating its judicial work quantitatively and qualitatively, developing judicial diplomacy with other stakeholders, and working harder to enhance the visibility of its actions. The Continental Court was established by virtue of Article 1 of the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Establishment of an African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights, to complement the protective mandate of the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights, with a view to enhancing the protection of human rights on the continent. The Protocol was adopted on 9 June 1998 in Burkina Faso and came into force on 25 January 2004. The Court officially started its operations in November 2006 initially in Addis Ababa, and a year later moved to its permanent seat in Arusha, Tanzania.