PERSONS with hearing loss in Manyara Region have complained about sextortion – a form of corruption in which, those entrusted with power seek to extort sexual favours in exchange for something within their jurisdiction to grant or withhold. They say their disability is used by some officials to get some favours, calling on the government to intervene and ensure such acts do not recur among them or even among other people who are entitled to basic social services. The habit is widely seen when the persons with hearing loss seek employment from officials in different offices or when they are in need of certain services necessary for them in their challenging environment. Manyara Regional Chairperson of the Deaf Ana Ngalawa revealed this phenomenon during a workshop organised by the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to put in place strategies to fight against the vice. “When persons with hearing loss seek basic services such as employment in different offices have been facing some challenges, one of them being sextortion. You find girls are deaf and dumb, but very beautiful, so some officials end up seducing them so that they get sexual favours for the services they provided. “I decided to bring these officials from PCCB so that they may raise awareness among the persons with hearing loss because as secretary, they have filed complaints with my office, but I am unable to address them. I am sure in future they will know what to do if they encounter such a challenge and ultimately, we will make it a history,” said Ms Ngalawa. She noted that communication had been one of the stumbling-blocks for persons with hearing loss and that although sextortion was criminalised in Tanzania, some officials went on with it, boasting of power entrusted to them, on one hand, and bearing in mind some of the persons with hearing loss are ignorant of the law or are too desperate for what they sought, on the other. Section 25 of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) of 2007 states that anybody being in the position of power or authority, who in the exercise of his authority, demands or imposes sexual favours, or any other favours on any person as a condition for giving employment, a promotion, a right, a privilege, or any other preferential treatment, commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine of not exceeding 5m/- or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or both. She appealed that there should be interpreters at government offices and in different institutions so that when the persons with hearing loss called, they could be assured of getting the services they needed. The secretary noted that even in health facilities, the persons with hearing loss faced a lot of challenges and were in great danger of getting wrong prescriptions from medical officers who didn’t understand sign language. PCCB Manyara Regional Head Holle Makungu said PCCB had been making follow-ups of various forms of corruption and that they had organised the workshop to raise awareness among the persons with hearing loss on corruption, its effects and what they should do if they were subjected to exhortation. PCCB was also there to hear of any challenges the persons with hearing loss were facing as they sought services from public offices so that solutions could be found.