THE signing of the Zimbabwean ‘missile’, Perfect Chikwende heralded the climax of the mini-transfer window which went solely a Dar es Salaam giants’ affair. Chikwende, a tireless winger whose goal enabled FC Platinum’s 1-0 win over Simba during the CAF Champions League was officially unveiled in Simba kit, signing a contract flanked by the team’s caretaker, Selemani Matola. During his former team’s encounter, Chikwende was a constant menace to Simba defenders and their goalkeeper Aishi Manula. To score his team’s winner, the speedy winger rounded and outsped defenders Joash Onyango and Paschal Wawa before releasing a ground shot past advancing Manula. Chikwende becomes the second international to sign for Simba after the Ugandan defender Thadeo Lwanga. Simba have beaten their Dar es Salaam rivals Azam who were also hunting for Chikwende signature after seeing his brilliance during the FC Platinum-Simba game. The arrival of Chikwende might be a misfortune for some of the players. As it was reported yesterday, Simba are contemplating axing either Francis Kahata or Bernard Morrison to give room for Chikwende. The Zimbabwean was signed by Simba to bolster their squad and increase their chances of winning their fourth league title in as many seasons as possible. Having reached their foreign limit, the reigning champions will have to exclude or release one of their imports to allow their new player to be involved in the league assignment. “Simba management has had a discussion with Morrison and explained they might be forced to let him go owing to his health issues,” a source close to the club said on Saturday. For Simba’s traditional rivals Yanga, the hottest players have been Burundian duo; Saido Ntibazonkiza and Fiston Abdulrazak who made his entry a few hours before the end of the transfer window. Tanzanian defender Dickson Job who has also joined Yanga, peaked the late transfer news for the local stars. Speaking on the transfer, Yanga’s Burundian tactician, Cedrick Kaze said he didn’t want to sign players who will not add value to the team, therefore he did not rush to buy players when the transfer window was opened. The mini-transfer window opened its door on December 16 and climaxed on January 15th, 2021, The Burundian tactician is yet to lose a match since joining the Jangwani-street giants. For Azam, the biggest relief was the arrival of their smiling killer, Prince Dube who was taken to South Africa for treatment after picking in jury during his team’s match against Yanga. Still the most notable signing this time has been the Uganda born goalkeeper, Mathias Kagonya, one of the safest hands in East African region. Kagonya has already played for his team and his good saves during the Mapinduzi Cup 2021 tournament in Zanzibar.