HAPPY New Year to all my readers! ANOTHER year is already here. According to the calendar, here is a new start. Around this time of the year, many think of what the new year has in store for them. Indeed, we are right in a time of reflection, hopefulness, and often, searching for meaning, be it for individual wananchi or the nation. So far the general public sounds optimistic. From our national perspective, many see 2021 as a year when grand ventures will be undertaken, awesome projects will begin, dreams will hatch, grow and change our country for good. For others, especially those in faith or religious circles, they see this year as a time when enemies will be reconciled, walls of division will come down and forgiveness granted. Well and good. Let us hope that 2021 will see Tanzania’s national beauty created, and hope sustained. But what exactly shall or should be our guiding principle to help us as a nation that shall inform the mission and actions of the government and wananchi at large? Well, from what we have achieved so far, in my view, the guiding value should be our steadily growing national resilience. And this is my agenda in this, my first article for 2021. Resilience is critical for people, our countries and businesses across Tanzania, be it in the remote villages of Mugwabila and Kibumbwe in north-western Tanzania or Chahwa and Mahomanyika in the central part of Tanzania. I begin by saying, in the world we are told that some countries are more resilient than others. This idea led me to ask myself, what have those countries in the world known to be most resilient done to become super resilient? My simple desk based research made me realise that they have done what we can do. They have done what the 5th government under President Magufuli continues to do especially now at the dawn of its second term. There is nothing like a miracle. It is nothing else but clear efforts, among others, to ensure that the journey towards building strong economic productivity, constant improvement on our infrastructure, coupled with a very well managed corruption control strategy is kept a priority. This can be achieved because of the prevailing environment, an environment where determination, putting in energy, effort, and deciding on strategies is known as a common language of the day. If the vision is clear, then wananchi need to support the government whole heartedly. To do this we shall need a clear sense of commitment. Yes, we need a vow, or an oath – a promise from our leaders – from the bottom to the top, who can stand up and protect all we have so far achieved in the most critical areas of economic productivity, political stability, control of corruption and corporate governance. And we really need this value of resilience. We have to be strong enough at all times because we are not immune to common multiple and compounded shocks faced by many countries across the globe. Here I am thinking about challenges of, say economic shocks and communicable disease outbreaks. These can affect our progress and take us back to the hardships of the past. We are not either invulnerable or protected from chronic stressors of the shocks I mentioned earlier. Here I am reminded of the problems the world faces, now and then. I mean poverty and inequality, and in some places serious socio-economic exclusion, fragile institutions and limited delivery and poor quality of basic social services, to mention a few. As I use the term resilience, I know how elusive and complicated it can be or mean. But as for this piece, I simply want to refer to the ability of my country to be successful. What is driving me is the very popular Kiswahili word – “tunaweza” meaning ‘we can’ – a brand slogan of his excellency president John Joseph Pombe Magufuli who has clearly shown his people that indeed they can do wonders by themselves. From what I see and at the core of the concept of resilience, the nation has improved quickly. After the past struggle between 2015 to 2020, our recovery curve shows that we have not only recovered quickly, but steadily, including making our reputation moving up the ladder and what damaged us in the past well addressed. So, I see the current government maintaining the pace and reassuring wananchi that as a nation, we are capable of regaining our position on the world map, especially after being bent, stretched, compressed, or rather deformed as the past struggle showed. For me, this is the reason why 2021 should be, yet another year for us to standup for our growing national resilience. And it is possible because we have constantly been told by JPM, and seen the outcome of Mr President’s assurance that what we need and already have is the recovering strength and spirit. This means there should be no reason for our resilience initiatives and approaches to resilient development to fail. It is this spirit which has rewarded us, as a nation, with remarkable socio-economic progress. But to get there we need resilient leaders and leadership. In fact, one of the most important qualities of a leader is resilience. So, we shall need leaders with a mind-set that focuses on the essentials of this nation. And I use the word essentials purposely because it is always discouraging to hear and see, even today, some leaders who are still vulnerable, living in the past and are removed from office because of their lack of integrity. It is very sad. After five years of Magufuli’s resilience in setting high standards for leadership, and his clear focus on encouraging fellow leaders to stand high in responding to the demands placed upon them, it is sad that some leaders, as Mr President keeps saying, are still corrupt. He says he will keep removing them from office. And many know, that he will kick them out, because for him and his known resilience, he has shown that he is willing to go through uncomfortable situations and will continue to function under pressure to skillfully master stressful situations so that no one can tamper with our growing national resilience. And this is the true grit of a leader. It is not about how they perform during good times, but rather how they display emotional strength, courage and professionalism during the most trying times, like those between 2015-2020 when, among many things, Mr President persistently stood firm in seeking the right balance for Tanzania’s mining fiscal regime. For JPM, it is a matter of moving forward. In other words, no matter how much falls on us, we keep ploughing ahead. That’s the only way to keep the roads clear, said Greg Kincaid (1957), the author of A Dog Named Christmas. In my view, if we have the right leadership at all levels, surely in 2021 we will make the current phenomenal grow rock-steady. And let me insist, while personal resiliency is important, it is a critical component of effective leadership. Finally, if you are part of the government leadership team, please hold yourself responsible for a higher standard than anybody else expects of you. Never excuse yourself. Never pity yourself. Be a hard master to yourself- and be lenient to everybody else, says Henry Ward Beecher (1813-1887) an American Congregationalist clergyman, social reformer, and speaker, known for his support of the abolition of slavery. For me personally and to my fellow citizens, the wisdom from Andrew Jackson (1767-1845) an American soldier and statesman who served as the seventh president of the United States from 1829 to 1837, suits us at least for today: Every good citizen makes his country’s honour his own, and cherishes it not only as precious but as sacred. He is willing to risk his life in its defense and is conscious that he gains protection while he gives it. Cheers, and once again Happy New year 2021. • Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of T anzania, Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997