WHEN Salha Kombo Omar got into conflict with her husband over house ownership, she did not know what do or steps to take and struggle for her right. She said that because of patriarchy embedded in the society, most of the men in the family regarded her a stubborn woman and without respect trying to challenge a man. However, Ms Omar a housewife of four children said she kept on seeking pieces of advice from different people, because she had no money to hire a lawyer. "It was my house, although I had no title deed. I had invited the husband to live in the property at the time when we got married, but now he faked documents claiming it is his house,” she pointed out. Fortunately a friend informed me about volunteers who provide legal aid (paralegals) to people in need and it was the beginning of my success to defend my house. “I got into contact with a paralegal, who provided good legal guidance until I defeated my husband in the legal battle and got my house and in retaliation, he divorced me,” she added. Her story is one of the several testimonies at the end of seminar on ‘legal aid’ that portrayed the importance of paralegals in the country particularly the poor people, with majority being women in villages, where gender based violence and disputes over land, house and other properties are high yet access to justice remains their challenge. Several people at the meeting that was organized to close the four-year ‘paralegal empowerment’ project spoke on how they have benefited from the legal aid provided by the paralegals in their respective districts, with their number in brackets: Unguja North A (25), Unguja West A (17), Unguja Urban (40), and Unguja North B (23) where the project was implemented. Mr Mohamed Abdalla from the Zanzibar Association of People Living with Disabilities implementing organization of the project said the main objectives were to empower/capacity building of paralegals for efficiency in providing legal aid, report writing, and project writing in search for grants. His list also included training on how to build good relations with stakeholders in legal process (Media, Police gender desks, Local Government Authorities (LGAs) such as district commissioners, community leaders- Shehas). He said the objectives have been met as performance of most of the paralegals in targeted areas has improved, more organized in helping people, who seek legal aid, more active than before, and having good relations with local authorities at grass root level. The target was to train/empower one-hundred paralegals but due to drop outs (one dead, three married and left the career, presidential appointee, and inactiveness because of being unpaid ) only 78 including 43 women completed the four year project. During the implementation of the project, paralegals formed and worked under different umbrellas: Unguja North ‘B’ Paralegal Organization (NOBPAO), North ‘A’ Paralegal Centre (NAPAC), Paralegal Unit West ‘A’ (PAUWA), and Urban Paralegal Unit (UPAU). Challenges encountered during the implementation of the project include the recruitment of paralegals with employment, many were busy with their work, affecting the efficiency of the project, “Each paralegal was supposed to open his/her office for at least three hours daily to serve people, but many couldn’t due to their busy timetable.” A total of 160,843 people (clients) including 89,258 women were reached with legal education, 548 people (include 320 women) requiring legal aid were served during the project period June 2017 to December 31, 2020 supported the Legal Services Facility (LSF), but the need remain high, arguably in all regions of Zanzibar so that more people can receive legal aid. At the meeting Director- Legal Aid Department Ms Hanifa Ramadhan Said emphasized on the importance of ensuring access to justice for the poor people and expressed gratitude for the development of the paralegals in the country. She said at the meeting on ‘access to justice for all- including women and people with disability through education and legal aid provided by paralegals,’ adding: “Our effort is to ensure people have a wide range of high quality, effective legal services. We all need to play a role in moving forward as we improve services to achieve better access to legal services.” Ms Said informed paralegals that they have been playing an important role that helps to improve the legal aid system, and rule of law in the country, as she emphasized on the importance of ensuring access to justice for people and expressed gratitude for the development of the paralegals in the country. “The government fully recognizes paralegals because of their importance in achieving development goals,” she said adding that her office has been working hard to ensure no body is left behind in access to justice. The director, Legal Aid Department, Ministry of State- Constitution, Legal affairs, Public Service and Good governance Ms Hanifa, however, urged the paralegals to strengthen collaboration with district council officers, and police Gender desks officer to make their work better.” She joined other people to commend paralegals for the services they have been providing in rural areas as, Mr Mohamed Abdalla, Ms Salma Sadaat, and Mr Ali Omar, all from the disability association said people with disability were among those who benefited from paralegal work. Ms Daima Mohamed Mkalimoto- Director Policy, Planning and Research, First Vice President’s office also spoke positively about paralegals, adding: “It is good that we have several testimonies proving good work by the paralegals in the country. Let us continue being close to them.” Ms Mkalimoto urged paralegals to continue working with stakeholders in ensuring people, particularly the poor, women and people with disability in villages’ access justice, as portrayed by President Hussein Ali Mwinyi since he took over power. She said increased public awareness about their rights has been good, along with more learning on how to search for justice once they are abused, or get into conflict or someone want to grab their properties, instead of remaining at home complaining, as she urged public not to be discouraged huddles in search for justice. Mr Mohamed Abdalla from UWZ said that paralegals have been playing an important role in the society but urged paralegals to specialize in different skills for example Gender Based Violence (GBV), land rights, family rights, and children so that they are more effective. At the workshop, Ms Ilham Ahmed Abdulkadir, Ms Harusi Mpatani, Ali Haji Hassan, and Salim Mohamed abdalla made presentations to the paralegals- ‘counselling skills for paralegals;’ ‘the value of volunteering in society development;’ ‘Paralegals Organization Sustainability after completing project;’ and ‘law governing NGOs in Zanzibar;’ respectively. A paralegal is defined as a person, who is either a community- based or works within some organisation or structure and has basic knowledge of the law and its procedures; knows about conflict resolution procedures; and has the necessary motivation, commitment, attitude and skills to help people and communities with their legal, human rights, administrative, constitutional and developmental problems, while at the same time empowering them to tackle these matters on their own in future. A paralegal may investigate and refer matters to lawyers or relevant bodies which can deal with them, and is accountable to the communities that they work in. Paralegals are usually community-based people who are trained in basic legal skills, for example problem-solving, advice-giving and statementtaking, in order to serve their communities. They include lawyers who try to meet the needs and demands of communities, but there are things which make it difficult for people to get access to lawyers, particularly in rural areas. For example: the cost of having a lawyer act for you; and the shortage of lawyers who will work in rural areas. Other challenges that impede people to access legal aid, contributing to delays in justice, are the shortage of lawyers who are prepared to work with communities to resolve problems; and communications problems, such as language and distance which make lawyers very inaccessible to the average person Paralegals also play an integral part of our legal system, as they provide many valuable services to lawyers, including editing and drafting of legal documentation, preparing correspondence, performing legal research, preparing case summaries, among other things. The paralegal profession began during the late 1960s and early 1970s, as the need for greater access to legal services increased. The high cost of legal services made it difficult for the poor to obtain counsel, and as a result, legal secretaries arrived on the scene to perform legally substantive tasks. The job has since evolved and now legal secretaries are usually called paralegals or legal assistants and are typically certified and hold a college degree.