THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Innocent Bashungwa has pledged to safeguard the welfare of journalists at their workplaces in an effort to promote the sector, which plays a crucial role in national development. The move comes amid concerns on challenges relating to poor working conditions and lack of adherence to the country’s Employment and Labour relations Act by their employers and media owners. Some of the main key challenges facing journalists in Tanzania include lack of contracts, untimely payments, and suspension of media houses. Responding, Mr Bashungwa said his docket would work closely with the labour department of the Prime Minister’s Office to ensure all journalists are given contracts that are also respected by all parties. He was speaking over the weekend during his meeting with media practitioners for the aim of familiarising with challenges for effective interventions. “The ministry shall work together with the labour department in the Prime Minister’s office to have all challenges pertaining to working contracts for all journalists addressed and all players enjoy the fruits of their jobs,” he assured. The minister maintained the view that, in their workplaces, journalists should receive fair treatment like any other employees as required by the law and that all their contracts should be respected. “My ministry will continue undertaking a guardian role to all media houses to ensure that the law, rule and regulations are observed by all players in a way that benefits both media owners and the journalists,” said Mr Bashungwa. On the other hand, the minister reminded journalists of the importance of putting forward national interests and adhering to the rules and regulations governing the industry. He assured that the ministry would continue strengthening the mutual cooperation between government and members of the media across the country. “We have also to ensure all journalists meet the minimum qualification of having a diploma in journalism as required by the regulations of the Media Services Act 2016 (MSA), the requirement that among other things, aimed at professionalizing journalism,” explained Mr Bashungwa. The regulations put diploma as a minimum education qualification for journalists where practitioners without qualifications were given five years that ends December 2021 (this year) as a grace period to go for further studies.