Namungo FC gallantly marched into the play off stage of CAF Confederation Cup after kicking out El Hilal El Obeid with 5-3 aggregate win in Khartoum, Sudan. It was the biggest achievement for Namungo who were promoted to the top flight league two seasons ago. Namungo who went to Khartoum with a 2-0 lead, forced the hosts to 3-3 draw in the return leg match. Namungo managed to hold the Sudanese after surviving a 2- goal scare. It was a thrilling contest between the two clubs who fought hard to seal a place for the play-off stage in the CAF Confederation Cup. The first half was bad for Namungo as they conceded all three goals in the first 20 minutes of the game. Stephen Sey, Blaise Bigirimana and Edward Manyama were the stars for Namungo on the day as they scored the goals that gave Tanzania a pride in the continental level competition. Stephen Sey scored the opening goal in the third minute of the game. The Ghanaian hitman appeared to have boosted the Sudanese as they registered three goals in a six minutes interval. Namungo regained back strength and pocketed their second goal six minutes before the end of the first half. It was Blaise Bigirimana who netted it. Five minutes after the start of the second half Edward Manyama levelled the score by netting the third goal that totally paralysed El Hilal. The country’s representatives Namungo now await the opponents who will be eliminated from the CAF Champions League. If Namungo win their play-off game they will progress to the group stage. On the first encounter, Namungo smashed El Hilal Obied 2-0 at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. Sixtus Sabilo and Stephen Sey were the club’s heroes in the first leg. Sey has therefore scored four goals in CAF Confederation Cup after scoring a brace in the preliminary round over Al Rabita of South Sudan. On that day they won 3-0 victory where Shiza Kichuya completed the score list. Namungo FC were lucky to qualify to the next stage after Al Rabita were disqualified for violating regulations regarding the return leg CAF Confederation Cup. The South Sudanese Federation failed to secure the tickets for the match day officials as required, and the Confederation of African Football (CAF) had no option but to hand the visitors a walkover.