ALL is ready for the start of the annual Mapinduzi Cup which is set to put Zanzibar on spotlight as a total of nine teams are well drilled to fight for the championship, whose marathon begins today. In an early kickoff, champions Mtibwa Sugar will begin their title defence by facing Chipukizi at Amaan Stadium while later, Young Africans, who left Dar es Salaam on Monday for the isles’ event,  will take on Jamhuri at the same venue. Mtibwa Sugar overpowered Simba 1-0 to lift the silverware last year in one of the thrilling finals, courtesy of Awadh Salum's 38th minute goal which was enough to silence their opponents on the day. However, last year's finalists Simba are scheduled to open their account on January 7th against Chipukizi while Azam will face Mlandege on January 8th. Simba’s fixture has been delayed due to the fact that they have a crucial International duel in the CAF Champions League (CAF CL) versus FC Platinum slated at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. Tanzania Mainland has since deployed five teams against four to be fielded by the hosts Zanzibar who have vowed to let the championship stay put in their territory. This side will be represented by Yanga, Simba, Azam, Mtibwa Sugar and Namungo while the envoys from Zanzibar are Mlandege, Chipukizi, Malindi and Jamhuri. However, teams like Yanga, Simba and Azam will miss some of their key players who are reportedly in the national team Taifa Stars squad which is on the field preparing for Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) finals. However, Yanga have confirmed that skipper Lamine Moro will not be part of Mapinduzi Cup mission as he has been permitted to travel to his native country Ghana for a brief break. "It is true that Moro will not be part of the tournament but all other players you see in the Yanga squad excluding those who are in the Taifa Stars camp, will be featured," said the club's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli. He added that their target is to win the silverware as they have not lifted it up for a long period as such, he said this time around, they are ready to clinch it. Also, Mtibwa Sugar Information Officer Thobias Kifaru narrated that there is no way they are going to easily surrender the Mapinduzi Cup championship. "Mtibwa Sugar has many supporters in Zanzibar as such, we will be playing at home something which will fuel us to do well in the contest," he noted.