SIMBA have admitted parting ways with the head coach Sven Vandenbroeck is shocking and the club urged fans to be calm when the management looks for his replacement. looks for his replacement. On Thursday, Simba confirmed the exit of the Belgian tactician only a day after he led the team to the group stage of CAF Champions League after booting out FC Platinum of Zimbabwe 4-1 on aggregate. The decision has shocked many across the country with some wondering why they had parted ways with a coach, who had guided them to the group stage of the competition for the third time in history. Simba’s shot stopper Aishi Manula, who guard the posts brilliantly during the match, was short of words upon hearing the sudden departure of the Belgian. “We don’t have a word to say but, we wish you luck wherever you go and God will lead you well,” said Manula in his facebook page. A few hours later Sven Vandenbroeck responded on his instagram page seen with cheering Simba players: “Proud of what we have achieved together I have amicably parted ways with Simba to find more balance between work and my family, and for personal development. I do so with heavy heart because I have become a part of Simba and Simba become a part of me. “I thank all players for their contribution to our success and fans for all the wonderful memories. I especially thank President Mo and CEO Barbara for their professionalism and for helping me to do my job. They both tried to convince me to stay to till the last second.” It seems his exit has also affected the club’s Information Officer Haji Manara, who has termed it as sad news but asked for calm as they search for his successor. “It has shocked us since it is not good news for this period,” Manara wrote on his Facebook page after the exit of Vandenbroeck. “But let us pray we relax and leave the task of getting a good successor to our leadership so that we can cross the line together.” On the coach’s exit, Simba said in a statement: “The Board of Directors of Simba Sports Club announces to its members and fans that we have parted ways with our head coach Sven Vandenbroeck by mutual consent. “Simba thank coach Sven for the success achieved during his time with the club where we won the Tanzanian Premier League, the FA Cup, and the Community Shield and qualified for the group stage of the CAF Champions League. “In light of the above, assistant coach Selemani Matola will hold the position vacated by Sven up until we announce a new person for the role.” The statement continued. “We recognise that Sven will always be part of the Simba family. Aussems failed to further guide Simba in the CAF Champions League after losing to UD Songo of Mozambique in the preliminary round. Yesterday, the former Simba Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Crescentius Magori urged club’s members and fans not to blame the management as a source of Vandenbroeck departure. “We have a mindset that whenever a coach exits the club, people blame the management which is not usually the case. As an advisor of the chairman of the board, I have never heard about misunderstanding between the coach (Vandenbroeck) and the club.” He further said Simba is a big club followed by many people around the world who can hire Vandenbroeck and give him more numerations bearing in mind that he once served as assistant coach of Cameroon, he coached in Zambia and managed to clinch three titles in one season at Simba. “Nowadays, clubs like young coaches with modern skills of running football,” remarked Magori.