COCA Cola Kwanza has donated 100 desks to Kibiti District in Coast Region, an initiative intended to support government efforts to improve a learning environment. The beverage firm’s donation worth 10m/- that was received by Kibiti District Commissioner Gullamhussein Kifu will address a shortage of school desks in primary schools. During the handover event held in Kibiti District, it was unveiled that the donation would benefit three primary schools in the area facing a shortage of desks. Speaking at the event, Coca Cola Kwanza Director of Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability Salum Nassor said the donation aimed at giving back to the community part of the company’s gains. “Coca Cola Kwanza’s objective is to refresh and improve the lives of Tanzanians in various sectors of the economy, including education and this is one of reasons for donating the desks to Kibiti District,” he said. He said the community that benefitted from the Coca Cola Kwanza donation made an integral part of the company’s customers for its varied beverage products. Mr Nassor added, “The desks donated here in Kibiti were made from timbers used to carry raw materials for making Coca Cola Kwanza soft drinks. This shows how the company is making efficient use of resources available for the benefit of the community.” Coca Cola Kwanza Director urged other institutions, stakeholders and non-government organisations to work together and support the government to find solutions to community problems. Speaking at the event, Kibiti Member of Parliament Twaha Mpembenwe said the donation of desks had come at the right time at the commencement of the new semester with a huge number of student registration due to the fifth phase government’s free education initiative. For his part, the Kibiti DC said the donation of desks from Coca Cola Kwanza had demonstrated friendly relations between the government and the private sector which was benefitting the community. Mr Kifu insisted that the desks donated to schools in Kibiti District would be an incentive for students to improve their academic performance. Coca Cola Kwanza is a subsidiary of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa from South Africa and is one of the leading companies in making desks and supporting schools with acute shortages to improve a learning environment. Since the launch of the initiative to make desks part of its corporate social responsibility, Coca Cola Kwanza had made and distributed over 3,000 desks to various schools.