LAST week we saw how the donkey played roles in different religious activities which include the talking donkey of Balaam, the Virgin Mary who was taken from Nazareth to Bethlehem after a 144 kilometre long journey but the donkey was also used in the Jesus Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem, which took place in a day before the Last Supper. On the other side the three accounts show the domestication animals as means of transport started more than five thousand years ago when civilisation was rising and spreading in different parts of the world including the Middle East. On the other side scientists say horse, donkey and zebra are found in the horse family which paleontologists say ancestors of modern Equidae evolved about 54 million years ago and passed through different complex stages which enabled the evolution of genus of Equus, a group of mammals which includes a horse believed to have evolved about 32 to 37 million years ago, a donkey which evolved 4.5 million years ago and zebra which is believed to have evolved about 3.5 to 4 million years ago when the global average temperature was 2 to 3 °C higher than today, and the global cooling that occurred some million years earlier reduced the area on the Earth’s surface which was covered by forest and impacted the formation and expansion of the Savannah which then became the playground of horse, donkey and zebra. Scientists say from about 5 million years ago ancestors of horse, donkey and zebra evolved with flexible legs powered by hooves which enabled them to roam from one side to another of the expanding savannah where their powerful jaws had sharp teeth to brows on soft, tropical plants before adapting to brows on drier plant material, then to grazing of tougher plains grasses which are found today in Greater Serengeti Ecosystem, where Zebras form the second largest group of much larger contingent which is involved the epic annual migration. On their side historians say archaeological, biogeographical, and linguistic evidence suggest that the dog was the first animal to be domesticated, about 36,000 years ago. The relation between the two grew and became stronger between 17,000 and 5,000 years ago when the donkey was domesticated by nomadic people of Africa, followed by domestication of chicken about 5,400 years ago. Scientists describe domestication as a mutual relationship between plants or animals with the humans who influence on their care and reproduction. The domestication process widened along with civilisation which was growing stronger, enabling humans to develop and adapt new skills for domestication of more animals including the zebra which was believed to be able to follow the path of its closest relative horse which was domesticated many thousands years ago. History shows that efforts of domesticating the zebra started in 1892 from the walls of Buckingham Palace, where zoologist Walter Rothschild tried to teach a group of zebras to pull carriage through different streets of London, in 1893 captain Horace Hayes trained and used zebra to carry his wife from one point to another. The history of this process did not stop there because in 1907 doctor Rosendo Ribeiro who worked in Nairobi tried to domesticate and train zebra to pull an ambulance carriage for one first European hospitals in the city. History shows that in 1911 the Germans who ruled Tanganyika tried to train zebras to be used for transportation and replace horses who were imported from Europe. Meanwhile until the death of Walter Rothschild in 1937 there is no give out details of why the project of domestication of the zebra did not bear fruits but the absence of domesticated zebra pulling carriages in streets of London, Nairobi or Dar es salaam today is a clear indication that the zebra refused to be tamed. Meanwhile history of civilisation indicates that from about 11,000 years ago, human discovered that it was possible to make different use of different animals and through the same principal both Walter Rothschild and Rosendo Ribeiro considered different behaviour factors when they tried to domesticate the zebra. First character of domestic animals is that they are not supposed to be picky eaters, they must be able to find enough food in and around human settlements to survive. The herbivores, such as cows and sheep were easily domesticated because they are able to forage on grass and eat surplus grain supplies while carnivores, such as dogs and cats are willing to scavenge on human waste. Zoologists say zebras feed almost entirely on grasses, but may occasionally eat shrubs, herbs, twigs, leaves and bark. Their digestive systems allow them to subsist on diets of lower nutritional quality than that necessary for other herbivores and that character makes them to go around a wider area where they select and eat grasses weighing more 11 kilogrammes for an individual per day. During the epic Serengeti annual migration the selection of kind of food places wildebeests and zebras in different position, wildebeests are short grass grazers, their mouths are shaped so they can grip the juicy shoots. Zebra have long front teeth and can sheer off the long grass. When entering a new area, zebra basically mow the lawn for the wildebeest to enjoy, and then follow up nipping at the bits left behind. The ability of reaching maturity quickly relative to the human life span is the second feature of a domestic animal, people are not willing to waste too much time feeding and caring for an animal before it grows large enough to be put to work or slaughtered. Zoologists say female zebras mature earlier than the males, and a mare may have her first foal by the age of three. Males are not able to breed until the age of five or six. Mares may give birth to one foal every twelve months. She nurses the foal for up to a year. Like horses, zebras are able to stand, walk and suckle shortly after they are born, due to these features in Walter Rothschild and Rosendo Ribeiro were attracted by the zebras. The third feature of an animal to be domesticated is the ability to breed and thrive in captivity, like most members of the horse family, zebras are highly social and their social structure allows them to live in groups, known as 'harems', consisting of one stallion with up to six mares and their foals. Bachelor males either live alone or with groups of other bachelors until they are old enough to challenge a breeding stallion, although zebras are found in zoo and animals farm but this kind of life stopped individuals from thriving among humans. The fourth feature of a domestic animal is to be docile by nature, for example cow and sheep are generally easygoing, but the zebra is unpredictable and highly dangerous to humans, the zebra has a tendency of panicking when it comes under stress. Trainers said from 1893 to 1911 zebras proved that they are significantly smaller than European horses, also they felt discomfort of having a passenger for any length of time on their back compared with donkey and horse who tendencies toward people. The fifth feature for a domestic animal is ability to control its temper, unlike their closest relatives, horses and donkeys, zebras have never been truly domesticated, zebras are easily agitated and aggressive when cornered, zoologists say zebra doesn't just kick with the leg. Instead it looks between its legs in order to accurately place its kicks and then bucks and kicks violently with both back legs. Moreover, to give an idea of the power of a zebra's kick, you need to know that no horse has ever broken a lion's jaw but it is well known that few people have ever walked away after being kicked by a zebra, animal also known to inflict nasty bite wounds on each other and on people when they defend themselves against humans. Meanwhile scientists say zebras have lateral eyes animals, this means their eyes are positioned on the side of the head to provide them a range of visions including more than 350° whereby about 65° of this being binocular vision and the remaining 285° monocular vision, scientists say binocular vision in biology is described as a type of vision in which an animal having two eyes is able to recogniSe a single three dimensional image of its surroundings. There are several advantages which come with this mechanism but to mention a few, by having two eyes a zebra has a spare eye in case one is damaged, the mechanism also provides a wider field of view to animal with a maximum horizontal field of view of approximately 190 degrees with two eyes, approximately 120 degrees of which makes up the binocular field of view. In the middle of grassland of the savannah, the position of its eyes gives a zebra a clear picture of its surroundings because it allows the angles of the eyes' lines of sight, and through what is called gaze angle those lines relative to a particular object to be determined from the images in the two eyes. Just like other herbivorous, zebras have their two eyes positioned on opposite sides of their heads to give them a widest possible field of view but these mammals are able to apply monocular vision a mechanism in which both eyes are used separately, by using the eyes in this way, as opposed by binocular vision, the field of view is increased, while depth perception is limited. The eyes of an animal with monocular vision are usually positioned on opposite sides of the animal's head, giving it the ability to see two objects at once, this is unique feature among mammals of the savannah, meanwhile weighing about 350 kilogrammes, zebra is among the heaviest members of the horse family that has an excellent night vision. Scientists say during the migration, to locate the right way to mysterious promised land, wildebeest depend on the efficient memory ability of zebra who are believed to follow the same route from thousands of years ago, all these features made some zoologists to think the zebra would be useful to humans more than the donkey and horse, but all attempts to domesticate it did not bear fruits and the animal remained in the savannah. Email:  HYPERLINK "mailto:rstanslaus@yahoo.com" rstanslaus@yahoo.com