Pep Guardiola gave a light-hearted yet simple response when asked what the reason is behind Manchester City's incredible success, admitting that their fortunes are down to having a 'lot of money'. City are on an incredible 19-match winning run in all competitions following their 2-0 victory over Borussia Monchengladbach, and they look set to storm to their third Premier League title in four years, while they are also favourites for the Champions League thanks to their astonishing form. City are also in the Carabao Cup final, looking to win it for a fourth consecutive time, while they have progressed to the FA Cup quarter-finals. And following the win over Gladbach on Wednesday in the Champions League, Guardiola downplayed his own coaching skills and was honest enough to concede that City's wealth - the club is owned by the oil- and gas-rich emirate of Abu Dhabi - gives them an enormous advantage. 'We have a lot of money to buy a lot of incredible players,' Guardiola replied when asked how his team had managed to go on a 19-game winning streak. 'It is true. Without good quality players, we cannot do it. The humanity of this group... the players are fantastic and have an incredible relationship. They play every game to think just win that game. 'Today, enjoy the night and then think about (playing) West Ham (on Saturday). When people talk about the second leg, the second leg is in three weeks so now the next target is West Ham. That is all I am concerned with.' Over the past 20 years, City have spent almost an eye-watering £2billion on the world's best players, with billionaire Sheikh Mansour playing a huge part after buying the club in 2008. Since Guardiola joined as manager in 2016, City have forked out almost £700m - signing the likes of Riyad Mahrez (£60m), Bernardo Silva (£43m), Leroy Sane (£37m), Gabriel Jesus (£27m), Ikkay Gundogan (£21m) and Rodri (£65m) to boost their attacking fortunes. But it is in defence where City have specifically spent big, with Ruben Dias the latest big-money signing arriving at the club in a £64m deal. Dias, along with the likes of Kyle Walker (£54m), Aymeric Laporte (£57m), Joao Cancelo (£55m), Nathan Ake (£40m), Benjamin Mendy (£52m), John Stones (£47.5m) and Danilo (£27m), have been brought in recently. And in goal, Guardiola has splashed out on Ederson for £35m as well as Claudio Bravo for £17m but the latter's spell in Manchester certainly didn't go to plan. And despite the financial effects of the coronavirus pandemic, City's ease at spending big doesn't appear to be coming to an end anytime soon as they look to continue their dominance in England and finally end their European hoodoo. City have a huge 10-point lead at the top of the Premier League with just 13 matches remaining while they will also be eyeing a Carabao Cup final triumph against Tottenham in April. The Etihad outfit also have one foot in the Champions League quarter-finals following their 2-0 away win over Gladbach on Wednesday. And City will be quietly confident of finally going all the way in Europe this season after falling agonisingly short in years gone by, with Bayern Munich struggling to find their best form while Barcelona and Real Madrid are not the same animal they once were, partly due to the huge financial hit of the pandemic.