NMB Bank in Morogoro Region has donated school and hospital furniture worth 18.5m/- to support local and national efforts to improve the quality of social services in Mvomero District. The lender handed over the donation last week at Turiani, of which two schools got desks, chairs and tables worth 10m/-. The remaining 8.5m/-had been spent on furniture for a hospital and a health centre. Whereas Mkindo B Primary School received 50 desks, Diyongoya Secondary School got 40 chairs and 40 tables. The donation for Turiani hospital has been eight beds with mattresses as well as 50 bedsheets. To the Kibati health centre, NMB Bank donated several benches for patients. The donated items were handed over to Mvomero District Commissioner Albinus Mugonya on Thursday. “NMB Bank has been keen to see to it that citizen development endeavours and government efforts to improve social services are adequately supported,” Mugonya noted after receiving the school furniture donation at Diyongoya Secondary School. The NMB Eastern Zone Manager Dismas Prosper said the district’s authorities were doing a commendable job to support the social and economic aspirations of the people, who he described as key stakeholders in the success story of the bank. Mr Prosper also said NMB appreciates their support in ensuring that it contributes meaningfully to national development efforts. As such, he explained, the lender will relentlessly continue to empower them for success of both parties. According to him, challenges in the education and health sectors are matters of top priority for NMB Bank. He noted that the surest way to address them was for all stakeholders to work closely together. “Although the government has done a lot in this realm, we as stakeholders must support these development efforts by supporting society since it is its members who have made what NMB is today, the largest bank in the country,” he added. “NMB has been playing a pivotal role to support social services as a way to give back part of the profits that we make. For over 10 years, we have consecutively contributed one per cent of our annual profit to corporate social responsibility courses.”