THE third phase of rolling out electronic tax stamps (ETS) for products subjected to excise duty has received positive response among producers of bottled water, a survey suggests. The implementation of the latest phase, which included local and imported fruit and vegetable juices and recorded music and film products, started on November 1, 2020 and its deadline ended on January 31, 2020. The third phase was preceded by the first and second phases, which were gradually introduced by Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in January 2018 and August 2019, respectively. Findings of the survey have established that major bottlers abided by the deadline after they installed the electronic tax stamps management system (ETSMS) in their production facilities. Some of the companies include Bagamoyo-based Hill Packaging Limited (Hill Water), Agro Fresh Limited which produces Pangan pure natural water in addition to Uhai drinking water bottled by Bakhresa Group of Companies under its Azam flagship. The list also comprises of Kilimanjaro drinking water produced by Bonite Bottlers Limited, a subsidiary of IPP Group of Companies and Masafi drinking water bottled by A ONE Products and Bottlers Limited, a subsidiary of METL Group of Companies. It is through positive response by producers coupled with significant collection of revenue. TRA is undertaking a public awareness campaign in various parts of the country to sensitise the use of digital stamps, as well as electronic fiscal devises (EFDs). Speaking recently in Mbeya, a senior official of TRA, Mr James Ntalika, warned cross-border traders of tax evasion through the use of forged electronic stamps. Mbeya, Songwe and Rukwa are among the major trading partners and facilitators of cross-border trade between Tanzania and its southern land-locked countries of Zambia, Malawi, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and beyond. The official explained further that apart from the public awareness campaign, TRA was undertaking border patrols to identify illegal routes used by some traders to smuggle goods. "All traders, who will be found using tax stamps which are not genuine, will face legal action," he stressed. Through a notice issued by TRA Commissioner General, Dr Edwin Mhede, on October 21, last year, TRA  announced the commencement of the third phase on digital stamps effective from November 1, 2020. However, producers and importers were given a grace period of three months up to January 31, 2021, to work on their stocks not affixed by digital stamps. The introduction of ETS is part the enforcement of Section 5(1) of the Tanzania Revenue Act (Cap 399 RE 2019), which requires all excisable goods to be affixed by digital stamps. The new digital system, which replaces hitherto physical paper tax stamps, is meant to curb tax evasion.