The Tanzania Taekwondo Federation (TTF) recently received assorted training sport gears donated by Korea Taekwondo Promotion Federation which will play a big role to uplift the standard of sport in the country. Speaking at the hand over event held at the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in Dar es Salaam, Korean Ambassador to Tanzania Cho Tae-ick said he believes that the donated gears will help much to promote Taekwondo in the country. "Taekwondo is an Olympic sport as such, it needs to be promoted in the country so that one day, Tanzania should be able to win medals from this sport. "For us, we will continue to provide support to TTF to enable them operate without difficulties and we want to urge all those who participate in this sport to exercise hard," he said. Moreover, the Ambassador narrated that doing exercises is good for the body as they help to fight various diseases including Covid-19 as such, people should engage themselves in sports to improve mental and physical fitness. In his remarks after receiving the training gears, TTF president Ramoudh Ali expressed his happiness for the good gesture shown by Korea Taekwondo Promotion Federation in donating the items. "These sport gears have come at the right time and I can assure you that they will be distributed evenly to reach the intended clubs found both in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. "At TTF, we do our works in a transparent manner and I can assure you that these equipments will be well distributed and protected. We thrive to enhance Taekwondo in the country," he said. He then requested the Ambassador to bring a Taekwondo master to Tanzania so that he can train the domestic athletes and make them learn new skills of the sport. He also requested the government to help them with a place where in partnership with stakeholders, they can build a Taekwondo Sport Complex to host all major events concerning the sport. Among the donated gears include 190 Doboks, 30 sets of Hogus, 100 Double Target Pads, Headgears and Jerseys among others.