PRESIDENT John Magufuli’s approach in tackling health related emergencies like Covid-19 pandemic has been applauded by the African Union (AU), including going for the continent’s based researches in fighting the disease. In his first 100 days of the second term of his presidency, Dr Magufuli has categorically shown the direction of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Magufuli has maintained his position regarding application of vaccines, saying there first should be enough time to verify them. According to Dr Magufuli, the responsible Ministry (for instance, the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children) must do everything in its capacity to verify the efficacy of the vaccine before enrolling it in public. The Head of State maintained that any decision with regard to the adoption of Covid-19 vaccines should not be taken lightly. He pointed out that “not every vaccine is beneficial to our nation, the ministry should be extra careful on this issue to avoid leading the country into trouble. “Tanzanians should stand firm and stop being guinea pigs, due to such vaccines they may end up facing irreparable consequences to the country.” Few days later, the AU expressed its commitment to boost African based research initiatives in tackling the disease. The commitment was conveyed during the 34th Ordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU), which was held virtually. Since the coronavirus pandemic was reported for the first time in Tanzania, President Magufuli has encouraged people to use herbal remedies for self-care and medication, while directing for additional budget for the traditional medicine to improve healthcare services. The AU Outgoing Chairperson and President of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa expressed the continental body’s commitment to developing African solutions to African problems. “We have harnessed the excellence that exists on our own continent before searching for expertise beyond our shores. “Our response to Covid-19 has been driven, coordinated and capacitated by our own scientists and medical experts, mainly located within the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention,” said President Ramaphosa. Early this week, South Africa was forced to suspend its vaccination campaign against Covid-19 after studies revealed that the anticipated AstraZeneca vaccine they had sought was less effective against a variant of the virus found in the country. Related to that, health experts and medical scientists have chimed with President John Magufuli and commended for firm stance against the use of Covid-19 vaccines before any is released to the public. They lauded it as a crucial decision in safeguarding the health of the country’s citizens. The experts said other countries in Africa are already following the suit after realising the need to research more before applying any vaccine to their people. The plan came with a recommendation to strengthen the African Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), in order to respond effectively to emergencies and complex health challenges, as a specialised technical institution of the African Union (AU). The AU, recently, expressed its aspiration to strengthen its own institutions with the roll out of the Covid-19 vaccination programme. A Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, Hamisi Malebo, was of the view that there is no need to rush for vaccines before verifying their safety and efficacy. He said President Magufuli was right in his decision regarding Covid-19 vaccine. Prof Malebo, who is also the founder of Covidol-herbal medication said as President Magufuli is responsible for protecting the lives and health of his people, thus, he could not just rush for the vaccines. “It was not wise and the President could not allow such vaccines into the country whose safety and efficacy have not been verified... vaccines are dangerous and if not properly managed, may cause a huge consequence to the nation,” he added. “We thank our Almighty God for giving us a patriotic President, who had foreseen repercussions of the Covid–19 vaccines developed by various nations,” Prof Malebo said. Prof Malebo added: “ the researches, which have led to the development of Covid-19 vaccines in various nations, have been conducted within a short time... it is possible researchers didn’t get sufficient time to go through all the required procedures.” He said as experts in the area, they do not advise people to be vaccinated, but further studies should be conducted for at least five years so that they could come up with satisfactory scientific evidence on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines on human being. “What is happening in South Africa was also foreseen by some scientists,” he said. The National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) Director of Research Coordination and Promotion, Dr Paul Kazyoba said President Magufuli has made an excellent decision by not rushing for the vaccines. He said Tanzanians should continue listening to health experts and applying available means in fighting the scourge. “We should continue to find out alternative ways of dealing with this pandemic as we ensure that our country remains safe and continue to make close follow up on the developed vaccines,” he pointed out. Equally, he called upon scientists in the country and Africa in general to take precautions and verify each and everything that is brought to their countries. He said if not well managed, some vaccines could wipe out a generation. “Our scientists should not be indoctrinated by just receiving things through trust, even if a certain nation has a good record of making vaccines, precautions and verification exercises must be carried out,” he stressed. During the 34th Ordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU), Tanzania through the Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi maintained the country’s position of enabling African expertise in producing own medicines and vaccines in dealing with outbreaks like the Covid-19. Prof Kabudi, who represented President Magufuli at the meeting, called upon fellow countries to build the capacity of its health sector experts, to produce drugs and vaccines in times of disease outbreaks. He said by maintaining dependence on medicines and vaccines from other continents, Africa was depriving and undermining its ability and its position in the fight against outbreaks.