LEAGUE leaders Young Africans have pointed their arsenal at Mbeya City as the two sides meet for the crucial Premier League match at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya today. A win to Yanga will drive them to 47 points at the top of the pyramid while a lose will see them glued at the summit of the table with 44 points in hand. Both teams will be eagerly hunting for essential three points knowing in advance that the league is now in its second round where the champions to be are usually identified as the matches unfold. Hosts Mbeya City who opted to pitch a three-week camp in Tukuyu, Rungwe District returned to their base on Thursday ready to take on the incumbent leaders who are yet to taste league defeat this season. When facing big clubs at Sokoine Stadium, Mbeya City offer a strong resistance thereby becoming a hard to beat side as such, the visitors should be aware of that. From the standings, Mbeya City are not at a comfortable spot as they have garnered 14 points in 18 games and in those matches, they have triumphed in only two encounters hence, they deserve to pick up maximum three points in as many games as possible to be assured of staying put in the contest next season. For Yanga, it will be another opportunity to show the world how serious they are in their quest to claim the league title at the end of the campaign since victories are the only guarantee to make them key championship contenders. However, they will miss the services of Burundian striker Saidi Ntibazonkiza who is still nursing injury as such, a golden chance for the new blood in the team Fiston Abdul Razak to showcase goal sniffing instincts. He was featured in a friendly game against African Sports held recently at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam where Yanga lost 1-0 to mark their first defeat this season in all competitions. If he plays, then he will make his Premier League debut versus Mbeya City and another new player Dickson Job who arrived during the mini transfer window could also be making his first league appearance in Yanga colours today. “We have come here to search for three points and hopefully, results will go our way. We are aware that it is going to be a tough match but, from the preparations the team has had, I believe that we are here to celebrate after the normal 90 minutes of play,” narrated Yanga’s Vice Chairman of Registration Committee Hersi Said. Among Yanga players who are in the squad readying for the important match is the Angolan import midfielder Carlinho Fernandes ‘Carlinhos’ who was sidelined for sometime due to injury. He was among the foreign based players who received thunderous reception from Yanga fans on the day he landed in the country to begin his new life at the Jangwani Street origin club. After Mbeya City duel, Yanga will host Kagera Sugar and Mtibwa Sugar respectively at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam for possible six points at stake.