EXTRA use of skills, extra commitment and shrewd planning must be applied if our two envoys engaged in CAF sanctioned tournaments want to advance in their both home and away games this weekend. We are forced to insist on those aspects as none of them have an assurance for the upper stages; Simba who are already at CAF Champions League’s group stage are trying to collect the first away points while Namungo are engaged in a play-off match against the Angolan side. Simba who play AS Vita away in Kinshasa Democratic Republic of Congo today must do away with the past jinx that saw them losing 5-1 when they met the team in the past Champions League game. They must fight hard to overcome that hurdle so as to beat AS Vita at home this time. Two things are likely to work for both Simba and Namungo, but only if they fire on all their cylinders and stop any leakage in their defence; one, the pressure to win would be on their opponents and because of that, they would open up in order to kill the game and that could easily play into both teams’hands. Both Kinshasa and Luanda mission for Namungo are assailable as the level of the football in the countries of opponents is not far superior to us. Simba should feel while facing AS Vita that they have more experienced players who can give them victory and do away with the fact that makes AS Vita hard nut to crack at home. We insist on our team to work hard and win since it pays well the country, the clubs and players who are engaged in the tough mission since we have been honoured to have two teams whose players are well drilled. But to achieve that we urge them to work extremely hard to go through the next round given the kind of opponents they have who are certainly no pushovers. The importance of working hard on one’s pace lies in the fact that the standard of soccer in Africa is more or less the same from the south to the north and from the west to the east. Any team that is capable of playing at a very high pace for more than the regulation time is capable of winning matches both at home and away. While we insist on commitment, appropriate use of skills and fighting spirit as vital tools to success, we wish our envoys best luck.