I have a feeling that before long my state of health will be in a serious doubt because of several reasons, and one of them is my discovery of the services offered at my local barber shop. You see, because of the serious airstrip on my head, I have never found any reason to visit the barber shop, and this is because I believe the little hair remaining on my head should be left to disappear on its own. There is a time, when about 40 percent of my hair had disappeared, my wife decided that I should do the wise thing of getting rid of the rest and spot a shiny bald head, and she took the initiative of doing the job herself. She had waited for the day when I was as broke as an old church mouse, and I was just taking it easy at home reading old newspapers when she came with a new razor blade and did the job……professionally I might add. I did not like the new look however, because you see, naturally I have a big and shapeless head, so by removing the few hairs on it made me look like a confused alien who is not sure of his mission on earth. So from that day onwards I allowed the hair to grow at will, and I am sorry to say that the end result looked like a farm belonging to a farmer who was very drunk when he planted the seeds. But a few weeks ago, I was returning home after my collection of metal which a sorry excuse for a car refused to cooperate and I had to leave it on the street. Some of the windows on that junk do not close, and actually I cannot remember the last time they did, and because any serious thief will not even look at the ramshackle twice, I was very comfortable leaving it there. I was walking away from the metal junk when a young man standing outside a shop called me, and when I stopped he came over and in a very respectable voice and manner greeted me. “Shkamoo baba Boyi, I could not help noticing the problem you were experiencing with the car, so if you don’t mind, I think it will be a good idea to leave it outside my shop instead of the street, you never know,” he said. He pointed his shop to me, and I could see that it was a very fancy barber shop, and he told me that they can help me push it and park it next to the shop while I looked for a mechanic to look at it. I told the young man that the piece of junk was in no need of a mechanic, that it was just moody as always, and I assured him that after a few hours it will start as if nothing had happened, but I agreed to let them push it to his shop. He summoned several young men, and within a few minutes the junk was comfortably parked outside his shop. I discovered later that the young man is a friend to my domestic thug. After the exercise, the young man was kind enough to request me to have a haircut “on the house,” he said, and I reluctantly agreed, and I have to admit that he did a very good job. After he finished removing the few strands of hear from my alien head, he directed me to another room where he told me they will wash my head and apply some after shave. I entered the room and found a pretty lady with a knockout smile, and she had a sleepy look on her eyes. I can assure you that the lady knew her job, because the things she did on my head made feel like King Solomon…I have been going back constantly ever since, until someone told mama Boyi that I was planning to take the girl as my second wife. That day I was sitting comfortably, starting to dose off as the boy shaved my head, and he was halfway when I heard a commotion outside. I recognized the voice of the warlike Nyakiusa woman who is supposed to my wife, and what followed soon afterwards was a minor war at the barber shop, and the unfortunate girl suffered some minor injuries, which include the loss of her two front teeth. I bolted like a veteran athlete, and I took the next corner at high speed as the frying pan, the favorite weapon of my wife whizzed inches above my head. I took refuge at Zakayo’s Pub, where I found Jatello and another fellow called Darius the Virus having cold ones. They looked at my half shaved head with great suspicion before laughing their heads off. Next to the Virus was a woman who looked like history itself, very old and wrinkled, and she was swallowing beer as if she is the one who brewed it, and the Virus was looking at her in a very strange way. Jatello whispered in my ear that the Virus was madly in love with the woman, and this was after he had swallowed enough beer to float a small boat. “You look like an angel, with your soft face and shiny eyes…I want to clobber you with great love forever,” I heard the Virus whispering in the ear of the giggling old woman, who winked at me before swallowing her beer in one gulp.