THE government has expressed its commitment to supporting local technology innovators and promote their designed products so that they may effectively contribute to the industrial economy. Speaking to reporters at the weekend, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Leonard Akwilapo, said they would be identifying and promoting technological creativity and innovation that aimed at increasing production. He used the audience to invite innovators to register for the upcoming national competition for science, technology and innovation, Makisatu, scheduled for Dodoma on March 20-26. Dr Akwilapo said through Makisatu, which had been staged for three years, more than 1,060 innovations were identified and 130 of them were promoted by the government. He said 20 of the technologies were now in use. Moreover, he said, 85 innovations were in a proto-type stage and the government through innovation hubs was improving them to meet the standard and support the government in various sectors of the economy. He said registration for this year’s event started in November last year and the door would be closed on February 15 with five categories, which he said included primary schools, secondary schools, vocational skills, tertiary colleges and research and innovations. Three top winners in every category will earn 5m/-, 3m/- and 2m/- respectively. More than 600 direct and other 15,000 indirect employment opportunities have been created, thanks to the creativity and innovation of young people in the country. The government said the jobs created were made possible after more than 94 innovative companies were registered. “The government recognises and empowers local innovators. Some of them, through Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (Costech) have been able to develop and register 94 technology start-up companies intended to address challenges facing society,” he said. He assured innovators of government support and urged to utilise government agencies and institutions to develop their innovations and technologies.