CONFEDERATION of African Football (CAF ) has decided the Confederation Cup both two legged play-off fixture between Namungo and Primeiro de Agosto will be played in Dar es Salaam after the first leg slated for last Sunday in Angola was cancelled. Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) , Information and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo confirmed yesterday that they have received communication from confederation that the twolegged fixture will be played in Tanzania. According to Ndimbo, CAF had decided both fixture to be played in Dar es Salaam after discovering that both Namungo and their host Primeiro de Agosto were not the source which forced the confederation to call off the Luanda game. Namungo travelled to Angola to play their first leg but the game which was set for Sunday February 14 was called off by CAF after the Angolan authorities ordered all Namungo players and staff to self-quarantine after mandatory Covid-19 test. Following the cancellation of the match, efforts by the team head of delegation to see the team return home were frustrated by Angolan authorities, forcing the team to spend the whole of Sunday at the airport before they were ordered to return to the hotel. Namungo squad was later permitted to travel back to Tanzania on Monday night and already the team is in the country. However, they are without four members, three players and an official who were detained to undergo mandatory self-quarantine due to claims they had tested positive for Covid-19. The players left behind in Angola are Lucas Kikoti, Fred Tangalu and Khamis Faki, while the official is Omary Kaaya. Namungo were drawn against Primeiro de Agosto of Angola and were scheduled to play against their Angolan opponents on Sunday in the first leg of the playoff, while the return leg was slated for February 21st 2021 at home. Ndimbo disclosed that the Angolan club will now be the host of the first leg and they will decide where their game will be hosted in the country and as per CAF order the two fixtures should be stage between today and February 26. TFF also disclosed that CAF has directed all the two matches to be played within three days, and must also be played before February 26 and the Angolan side will host the first leg as well cater the preparations and other costs of the match.