DURING the month of December last year (2020); President John Magufuli issued a directive which makes History a compulsory subject to be taught in all our Secondary Schools. History is, of course, already being taught in our Secondary Schools, and the students are being regularly examined in that subject. Thus, on reflection, I asked myself why the President decided to make it a compulsory subject. But then, only last week, I received a phone call from the Chairman of a Government ‘Task Force’ which has been formed, and given the task of making all the necessary preparations for the successful implementation of the President’s directive. The Chairman told me that he was calling for the purpose of seeking my views and advice regarding this matter of the Presidential directive. I was, naturally, highly elated to learn that I was being involved in this matter, which I consider to be of significant national importance; and I was positively motivated to participate in this project; mainly because I happen myself to be a “historian” by training; having graduated with a “B.A. (History) (Honours) Degree” of the University of London, awarded by its then Makerere University College. Hence, having thus acquired the advantage of knowing the basic principles involved in the teaching and learning of History, I fully understand the underlying logic of the President’s directive. It must, obviously, be a component part of President Magufuli’s wider scheme for cultivating very strong and deeply rooted feelings of nationalism and patriotism (Uzalendo), among the youth of this country. This is perfectly plausible, and highly commendable; and many other countries in the world have taken similar steps in the same direction. This is due to:- (i) The importance of History. The importance of history has been recognised throughout the ages, as confirmed by the recorded sayings of some wise men. For example, an 18th century French writer and prelate named Francois Fenelon (1651 – 1715) is on record as having said the following: “A good historian is timeless; although he is a patriot, he will never flatter his country in any respect”. And much later records show, that the British politician, Ian Macleod (1913 – 1970) said the following: “History is too serious to be left to Historians alone”. Thus, a proper teaching of the authentic History of Tanzania, will enable our younger generations to appreciate, for example, the significance, and value, of Mwalimu Nyerere’s historic intervention which saved the situation in the very difficult case of Tanzania Mainland’s first ever 1958/59 general election. The difficulty arose from a threatened boycott of that election by the vast majority of the Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) members. But Nyerere was, ingenuously, able to avert that boycott which, if it had taken place, the constitutional development of our country would have been an entirely different story! (ii) History’s positive influence on the students A proper understanding of the country’s History, helps the student to cultivate strong and deeply rooted feelings of nationalism and patriotism; which is President Magufuli’s basic objective. Thus, in response to the request from the Government Task Force, I have been quietly making my own field investigations on the current state of affairs regarding this matter of History teaching and learning in our Secondary Schools; in order to enable me to submit better and more reliable advice to the Task Force. In particular, I have been making investigation in the following areas:- (i) The nature of the prescribed syllabus; (ii) The time allocated for the teaching of this subject, relative to the other subjects that are being taught; (iii) The availability of relevant reference books and materials for teachers and students’ needs for further reading; and (iv) The level of student ‘appetite’ and enthusiasm, in wanting to study that subject; which are essential factors that must be taken into consideration in the process of planning for the successful implementation of the Presidential directive to make History a compulsory subject. My preliminary findings I have identified three major shortcomings whose remedy would require major ‘surgeries’. They are the following:- One, the NEED TO REVAMP the syllabus which is currently being used; Two, the NEED TO INCREASE the time currently allocated for the teaching of this subject; and Three, the NEED TO INCREASE the availability of reference books and other relevant reading materials. And, in addition, (in view of the presumed intention of the President’s directive, namely “to cultivate stronger and deeply rooted feelings of nationalism and patriotism” in the students), there is also the NEED TO TAKE APPROPRIATE STEPS to enhance the level of student motivation, or ‘appetite’ and enthusiasm, in wanting to study this subject. The fact alone of making history a compulsory subject without being supplemented by students’ genuine motivation and enthusiasm, could easily lead to failure to produce the desired results. My personal observations (i) In relation to the need to revamp the current syllabus. In my view, the syllabus which is currently being used does has one distinct inadequacy, which is that it does not provide for adequate coverage of Tanzania’s authentic History. The syllabus appears to be overly focused on continental Africa, wherein Tanzania is necessarily given only a small space, proportional to the other countries of Africa. Thus, for example, in the prescribed text book for Form Four, the book gives only scant information on Tanzania (both Mainland and Zanzibar), which is clearly far from being enough for the purpose of inculcating in the students the desired high level nationalism and patriotism. (ii) In relation to the need to increase the teaching time; I was informed that currently, the prescribed teacher/student contact is only one class period a week, compared, for example, to seven class periods a week , for the English subject. (iii) In relation to the availability of reference material; there is an embarrassing scarcity of reference books, and other supplementary reading materials. This may be due partly to the inherent scarcity of locally published material; or, perhaps, the inequitable distribution of such material. For example, I have myself written and published a number of relevant books and articles, which could certainly assist in reducing this scarcity; but many of the Secondary Schools are not even aware of their existence on the book market! What needs to be done immediately (i) There is a very urgent need for new text books to be urgently commissioned, and speedily produced; which would give appropriate weight and emphasis to Tanzania’s authentic History. If I had the strength and energy to write such a text book myself, I would base it on the following outline of topics and sub-topics:- TOPIC I : The meaning and importance of History. SUB-TOPICS :- *The sources of History. *The evolution of man through the different Ages. *Trade in pre-colonial Africa. *Clanship and clan organisations. TOPIC II : A brief overview of Pre-colonial Tanganyika. SUB-TOPICS :- *The migration of tribes. *The tribal systems of Administration: the Chiefdoms, and the vast powers of the tribal Chiefs. * The tribal customary laws and conventions. TOPIC II : The establishment of Colonialism in Tanganyika S U B - T O P I C S : - * T h e scramble and partition of Africa: the 1885 Berlin Conference. *The establishment of German colonial rule. * The early resistance to German colonial rule: the Maji maji “rebellion” and other resistance efforts. *The trans-Indian ocean Arab slave trade, and its lasting effects on the population. *The German colonial economy. TOPIC III : The establishment of British Colonialism SUB-TPOICS:-* It was a direct result of world war II. *The nature of the British colonial Administration of Tanganyika : a United Nations ‘Mandated Territory’. *The British colonial Administrative system : establishment of the Military and the Legal Institutions, namely the Legislature, and the Judiciary. TOPIC IV : The Decolonisation process in Tanzania SUB-TOPICS :-*The formation of different political parties; and their respective failures and successes in the constitutional decolonisation process. * The importance and significance of TANU’s Tabora Conference of 1958; which changed the course of the country’s history. * The Zanzibar case of ‘decolonisation through revolution’, resulting from the utter failure, and consequent frustration, of their constitutional decolonisation process. TOPIC V : The achievement of Tanganyika’s independence : The first phase government of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere SUB-TOPICS:- *Mwalimu Nyerere’s initial tasks : the dismantling of all the colonial legal and administrative structures left behind by the colonial Administration. *Nyerere’s unprecedented purposeful resignation from the Premiership only a month after independence, a reflection on his unique leadership style and character. *Nyerere’s efforts in building a new Tanganyika nation :- *His rapid introduction of many new policies and programmes aimed at the transformation of the political landscape (new initiatives in new constitutional developments : the Oneparty State Constitution). The social dimension (new initiatives in the provision of education and health services), And the economic platform (new initiatives in crafting the forms and structures for the people’s development, on the basis of Ujamaa and Self-reliance. *The doctrine of ‘party supremacy’, and the significant role played by the ruling party, in the country’s decision-making processes during the one-party State political dispensation. TOPIC VI : From Tanganyika to Tanzania: The formation of the Union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar SUB-TOPICS :- *The factors that positively contributed to the formation of this Union . *The apprehensions of the union founding fathers, that necessitated the holding of top secret negotiations for the Union. * The signing of the “Articles of Union” Agreement, and its subsequent ratification. *The problems that have arisen relating to the two-government structure of this Union. * The ‘Political will’ as the principal factor which has facilitated the sustainability and stability of this Union. TOPIC VII : The end of an era: The voluntary retirement of President Nyerere, second phase government of President Ali Hassan Mwinyi SUB-TOPICS:- *The major economic reforms of his Government: from the Ujamaa economy to the market economy. *His major political reforms: the reintroduction of multi-party politics. *The process leading to the 1992 constitutional reforms, and the reforms themselves. *Other notable events during President Mwinyi’s leadership period, e.g. the introduction of the Leadership code in the country’s legal regime. TOPIC VII : The Third Phase government of President Benjamin Mkapa SUB-TOPICS:- *The major challenges in operating the multi-party political system :- *The post-election election boycotts organised by the Opposition CUF party in Zanzibar. * The Parliamentary reforms that were made to accommodate the multi-party political system. *President Mkapa’s efforts to improve the economy. TOPIC VIII : The fourth phase government of President Jakaya Kikwete SUB-TOPICS:- *The political challenges, and crises, that led to the forced resignation of Prime Minister Edward Lowassa, and their aftermath. TOPIC VIII : The fifth phase government of President John Pombe Magufuli SUB-TOPICS:- *Magufuli’s extraordinary performance : his new style management of the country’s natural resources. *His success in creating new mega infrastructure development projects. I would have been delighted to write such a text book myself; but alas, as the Scriptures say: “the heart is willing, but he body is weak”. Hence, if there are any Tanzanian young historians who are willing and ready to take up the challenge, please come forward and do the needful. “It can be done, play your part”. piomsekwa@gmail.com / 0754767576