PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has ordered all civil servants who are living outside their work stations to immediately relocate to their designated areas or face punitive action. He also directed the Minister of State in the President's Office (Regional administration and Local Governmen) Selemani Jafo to make a follow-up of the matter and submit a full report to him tomorrow. Mr Majaliwa issued the order on Thursday in Parliament when he was responding to a question from Geita MP Joseph Msukuma who sought the government’s stand on civil servants who have defied President John Magufuli’s order issued in October 2019. Dr Magufuli had issued a 30-day ultimatum to 30 District Executive Directors to relocate to their administrative areas or risk revocation of their appointments. Equally, the President extended the order to all civil servants whose work stations are in rural areas but were living in towns to relocate to their designated areas of work for effective service delivery. In his question on Thursday, Mr Msukuma said there were some civil servants who were still living in urban areas contrary to the president’s directives and that he was requesting for the intervention from the government. He said disobedience to this order, apart from delaying service delivery to the public, the malpractice increases cost of operation in the respective councils on covering transport of the staff in question to and from their homes every day. Responding, Mr Majaliwa said most of the councils have adhered to the directives and that those who are yet to do so have to relocate immediately as the grace period that was issued by the president elapsed. "There is no more time to wait the order from our president should be implemented accordingly. I therefore instruct all Regional Commissioners and Regional Administrative Secretaries in the respective areas to supervise implementation of the directive," he said. According to him, the government's determination of taking services closer to the people will be possible only if civil servants live at their work stations. Regional Commissioners and regional Administrative Secretaries have to ensure the effective implementation of these instructions, and for those who will be defiant have to face the  disciplinary measures," he said, adding that the report on  those councils  and civil servants who have not yet relocated  to their administrative areas have to reach in his office tomorrow at 10.00 am. A list of councils whose workers were directed to relocate includes Arusha, Kondoa, Geita, Iringa, Mufindi, Bukoba, Mpanda, Kasulu, Kigoma, Moshi, Lindi, Babati and Mbulu. Others are Musoma, Bunda, Tarime, Mbeya, Kilombero, Mtwara, Masasi, Newala, Njombe, Kibaha, Sumbawanga, Mbinga, Shinyanga, Bariadi, Singida, Nzega, Korogwe and Handeni.