THREE senior officials with Badr East African Enterprises Limited appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday on facing 13 economic charges relating to advance payments of over 30bn/- meant for execution of water projects. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Augustina Mbando, the accused persons were Badr Mohamed (59), a Plant Manager, Ahmed Badr Al-Katiyr (69), who is a Director and Akil Hassanali (56), who is an Accountant. They were not allowed to enter plea to the charges against them, which includes leading organised crime, forgery, uttering false documents, obtaining money by false pretences and money laundering because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate informed the accused persons that her court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything, including the question of bail. Under the circumstances, the case was adjourned to March 3, 2021, for mention. Investigations, according to the prosecution, are incomplete. Prosecution trial attorneys Ester Martin and Yusuph Aboud told the court that on diverse dates between October 24, 2016 and August 31, 2018 at various places in Ilala District in the city, jointly and together; the accused persons intentionally managed a racket. It is alleged that the accused persons pursuant to a scheme to defraud, by means of fraudulence pretences, obtained from the government of the United Republic of Tanzania a sum of 10,661,074.69 US dollars. Within the same period at Tabata Matumbi area within Ilala District, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, the accused persons gave allegedly three false documents, namely Advance Payment Guarantee and Retention Money Gurantee, bearing different numbers and dates. It is alleged by the prosecution that the accused persons purported to show that such documents were issued by CRDB Bank PLC and UPA Insurance Tanzania Limited. Such documents, according to the prosecution, were in favour of Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Water and Irrigation as guarantee against advance payments to Badr East African Enterprises Limited of 14,265,590.47 US dollars. The accused persons are alleged to have uttered the documents to the Permanent Secretary of the said ministry between November 4, 2016 and September 11, 2018 at Ubungo area within Kinondoni District and NBC Majengo Building within Dodoma District. Between December 21, 2016 and May 5, 2020 at Tabata Matumbi area within Ilala District, jointly and together, all accused persons allegedly obtained from the government advance payments totaling 14,265,590.47 US dollars. It is alleged that the accused persons falsely pretended that the CRDB Bank PLC had issued advance payment guarantee in favour of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Water and Irrigation against advance payment to be paid to M/S Badr East African Enterprises Limited. On money laundering, the prosecution charged the three accused persons in that on diverse dates between December 21, 2016 and September 27, 2018 at Tabata Matumbi area within Ilala District, they jointly and together acquired a total sum of 14,265,590.47 US dollars. The prosecution told the court that the accused persons knew at the time of receipt the said money was proceeds of predicate offences of forgery and participating in an organised criminal group and racketing.