PRESIDENT John Magufuli has declared three days of national prayers, appealing to Tanzanians of all strata to continue believing in God as the world battles the coronavirus pandemic. The Head of State allayed Covid-19 fears among the country’s population, saying “God is capable of healing and protecting the nation from the disease." He gave these remarks in Dar es  Salam on Friday  during a state funeral held at the Karimjee Grounds to bid farewell to the late Chief Secretary  Eng John Kijazi who died on Wednesday at the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital in Dodoma. He asked Tanzanians to dedicate three days of fasting and prayers from today(Friday, Saturday and Sunday) to ask the Almighty God to save this great country from the killer disease. "Our colleagues (Muslims) have started their prayers today (Friday). I call upon other religious denominations to continue with prayers on Saturday (tomorrow) and Sunday ... If we pray hard, God will hear our prayers and heal our nation," the president emphasised. He said that when the pandemic was first reported in the country last year, Tanzanians turned to God to ask for protection and healing through prayers which saw the deadly virus being eliminated from the country. "If you think you are not capable of something leave it to God's hands because He is capable of everything," Dr Magufuli said. "Diseases are there and will continue to be there; they have not started in Tanzania. There are countries which have lost many people, but God saved our nation last year," the president said. He urged Tanzanians to be firm and continue believing in God while taking precautions against the Covid-19 pandemic as issued by health experts. "There is no need of losing hope, our God is capable ... we should continue believing in Him and we shall win the battle ... it may be another test but I believe we shall win it," he said. He said that if God saved the country from the pandemic last year, He will also do so this year. Dr Magufuli ruled out government’s plans to impose a lockdown, appealing to people to continue with their normal daily activities. "Our nation is in God's hands and He will continue to protect us," he said. Last month, President Magufuli warned the Ministry of Health against rushing to acquiring vaccines for the Covid-19 pandemic without verifying their efficacy. The president also called upon Tanzanians to be firm and continue praying to God while taking precautions against the pandemic as issued by health experts. The president said any decision to adopt Covid-19 vaccines should not be taken lightly. “Not every vaccine is beneficial to our nation, the ministry should be extra careful on this issue to avoid leading the country into trouble. Tanzanians should stand firm and stop being guinea pigs for such vaccines because they may face irreparable consequences to the country,” he said. He said that the ministry should be careful in dealing with issues related to the health of Tanzanians without hurrying to acquire vaccines developed by other nations. He urged Tanzanians to stand firm and ignore threats imposed on them, saying all precautions must be taken in line with prayers against the scourge.