COCA-COLA Kwanza Limited has donated 100 desks to Ruangwa District in Lindi Region as an initiative intended to back government efforts towards improvement of education in the country. Coca-Cola Kwanza is a subsidiary of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa. It donated the desks worth 10m/- to Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who is also Member of Parliament for Ruangwa Constituency. Speaking at the event, Mr Majaliwa said the donation of desks from Coca-cola Kwanza demonstrates the good and healthy relations between the government and the private sector. He said the donation of desks has come at the right time at the commencement of the new school year with the huge number of students’ registration due to free education. On his part, the Coca-Cola Kwanza Director of Public Affairs, Communication and Sustainability Mr Salum Nassor said the company’s donation aimed at giving back to the community part of the gains. “Coca Cola Kwanza’s objective is to refresh and improve lives of Tanzanians in various sectors including education and this is one of the reasons for donating desks to Ruangwa District,” he said. Mr. Nassor added: “We do business in the right way for a better-shared future; this support will resolve school desks shortages and will benefit 200 students at a time.” The Coca-Cola Kwanza Director urged other institutions, stakeholders, and non-government organizations to work together and support the government efforts in find solutions to community problems. Since when they launched the initiative of making School desks as part of its corporate social responsibility, Coca-Cola Kwanza Ltd has made and distributed over 3,000 desks to various schools. Coca Cola Kwanza is a subsidiary of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa from South Africa has been one of the leading companies in making desks and supporting schools with acute shortage to improve learning environment. Since when they launched the initiative of making desks as part of its corporate social responsibility, Coca-Cola has made and distributed over 3,100 desks to various schools.