LONDREKES villagers in Simanjiro District in Manyara Region have commended Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) and Oikos East Africa (OEA) for implementing water projects. The villagers who live about 40km from the district's capital – Orkesumet, expressed gratitude after starting using water. Ms Naserian Joel (51), a mother of four who is a livestock keeper, says they feel happy after getting clean and safe water, saying they have as well started improving sanitation in their areas. She said they had lived without water nearby for so long that even children were failing to go to school so that they could help their parents to fetch water. They also had to travel long distances. The project was launched by Manyara Regional Commissioner (RC) Joseph Mkirikiti, who also hailed AICS and OEA for a job well done, saying the government would continue cooperating with all institutions to ensure that people accessed basic social services and developed socially and economically. Londrekes is one of the villages targeted by Kisima Project that aims at increasing access to clean and safe water among the rural communities of Kiteto and Simanjiro districts to safe water. Ms Nkasiogi Lemayon from the same village said it was sad that in some places water availability was still not good for everyone. “Above all, most vulnerable sections of the population, such as women, children and persons with disabilities, cannot count on this essential resource if not well assisted by people like these,” said Ms Lemayon. 'Kisima' is a Kiswahili word that means 'source' and contains the names of the territories where OEA is implementing its water projects: Kiteto and Simanjiro in Manyara Region. Services related to water supply are limited because institutional support is weak, management committees (CBWSO) have rather scarce capacities and the operating and maintenance costs are high. Kisima is committed ensuring fair and economically sustainable access to water systems and sanitation in the districts. The project, which is implemented by Oikos and the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (Ruwasa), uses solar technology to reduce operational costs and hence selling water at an affordable contribution. The scheme serves more than 2,000 Londrekes villagers who have now access to a protected water system. Kisima Project Manager Dario Sbrocca said to ensure fair and sustainable access to water for all, they preferred solar energy solutions, a greener and cheaper alternative. They also offer training and technical and civil servants so that they could provide more effective water and sanitation services. "With a view to future sustainability, we are working to make the population independent in the management of the water network," said Sbrocca. Londrekes Community Based Water Supply Organisation (CBWSO) Secretary Kone Metui Konoro had this to say about the newly launched project: ''Before the project, we used to fetch water from the forest. It was scary and dangerous to women and children. Previously we had to walk for three hours to get water from the fountain on the mountain, but now only 15 minutes are enough so that the rest of the time is spent on productive activities. We are willing to protect the water system to ensure it is used also by future generations." CBWSO is a legal entity mandated to manage rural water services and ensure proper service delivery and sustainability of the water system. To reach its objectives, OEA applies a systemic and interdisciplinary approach that foresees the implementation of development projects in four different sectors of intervention, natural resources conservation and management, natural resource accessibility, climate change adaptation and rural community economic empowerment.