PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said people should remember and emulate the activities of the late Eng Atashasta Nditiye, who was Muhambwe Member of Parliament. Mr Majaliwa observed this during a special mass for the deceased held at Kibondo Anglican Church in Kigoma on Monday. The late Nditiye passed away on Friday at the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital in Dodoma, where he was receiving treatment following a road accident which occurred on February 10, this year at Nanenane area in Dodoma Region. The Premier said the government recognises the role played by Eng Nditiye, during his lifetime and that is why, President John Magufuli sent him to represent him at the funeral. He called upon the residents of Muhambwe, parliamentarians and Tanzanians in general to pray for the deceased’s soul to rest in peace. “Let’s take our time to console the bereaved family …I believe this will bring courage to the family. The last time we set eyes, it was when he contributed something in Parliament on February 9, this year and I was chairing the session. “No one knew that he would not be here with us today. We should all be prepared, for, we do not know how our end is going to look like,” said the PM. Deputy National Assembly Speaker, Dr Tulia Ackson said Speaker Job Ndugai received the news of the demise of Eng Nditiye with sadness because he played a major role in the parliament. Dr Ackson pointed out that the deceased’s contributions reflected patriotism, and great love for his voters and nation at large. The Minister for Education, Science and Technology Prof Joyce Ndalichako, who was representing the parliamentarians, extended the legislators’ appreciation to the government for its support during Eng Nditiye’s treatment, funeral arrangements and burial. Delivering his condolences message, Kigoma Regional Commissioner Mr Thobias Andengenye described Eng Nditiye as a person who spent his time meeting with the regional authority to deliberate various issues regarding the development of the area. Among high profile people who attended the burial included former Minister for Works, Transport and Communications Eng Isaack Kamwelwe, the Permanent Secretary in the Livestock and Fisheries Ministry, Prof Elisante Ole Gabriel, Geita Regional Commissioner, Eng Robert Gabriel and parliamentarians. Eng Nditiye was born on October 17, 1969 at Kibondo in Kigoma Region. He went to Kabwigwa Primary School from 1975 to 1981 and later joined Dar es Salaam Technical College from 1984 to 1986, where he was awarded a certificate of engineering. In the first term of the fifth phase government, Eng Nditiye was appointed Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communications responsible for communications. The news of his demise was delivered in Parliament on Friday, by Speaker Job Ndugai, who said he passed away as a result of a road accident on February 10, this year at Nanenane area in Dodoma Region.