THE 18th edition of the Sauti za Busara festival commenced on Friday at Stone Town in Zanzibar with groups from Tanzania and the rest of Africa brightened the gala under the theme ‘Alive and Kicking. The globally acclaimed multicultural event has been down for two nights at the Old Fort featuring breathtaking performances from 14 groups (11 from Tanzania and 3 from the rest of Africa). Selecting from some of the best Tanzanian and African groups and artistes, this year’s edition features groups that heighten the iconic Ngome Kongwe for the first time. According to the festival director, Yusuf Mohammed there are plenty to look forward in this year’s edition from the selected artistes who illuminate Tanzania’s diversity and the rest of Africa. “The selection process has taken into consideration some of the travel restrictions being imposed by different countries that’s why we have the majority of artistes from Tanzania,” he said. According to Mahmoud, some of the selected artistes include Msafiri Zawose and Vitalis Maembe represent the very best of Tanzania’s cultural export to the world. “There have been some cancellations due to travel restrictions and lockdowns that some African countries have imposed to curb the spread of the Covid-19,” he said. Mahmoud said festival is an economic boost to the islands with millions of dollars being injected into the economy with hundreds getting either directly or indirectly employed. Speaking on the upcoming event, festival manager Journey Ramadhani said Sauti za Busara promotes Zanzibar and Tanzania across the world, it also attracts international promoters, giving opportunities for our musicians to share their work with global audiences. “Since 2004 when the festival opened its doors, our focus has been to showcase music that is unique and with cultural identity. We have consistently demonstrated that there is a market and demand for new, exciting and original sounds that are uniquely local,” he said. Sauti za Busara is an African music festival that is held every year in February in Zanzibar, Tanzania. It is centred in the Old Fort, with fringe events taking place concurrently around Stone Town including a carnival street parade.