WEIGHT and Measures Agency (WMA) has installed modern machines that will be used to measure the accuracy of electric meters. This was revealed in Dar es Salaam over the weekend by the agency’s Acting Chief Executive Officer Stela Kahwa during a tour of the Industry and Trade Deputy Minister Exaud Kigahe. Mr Kigahe visited the Misugusugu WMA centre in Kibaha in Coast Region to inspect its activities of fuel cargo calibration and water meters. Ms Kahwa said that the installation of the machines is the implementation of the government directives to the agency to enable the electricity consumers to pay the correct bills. “We are happy to tell you that we have implemented all government directives on time. The machine is here and we expect until March 15 we will start the project,” said Ms Kahwa. Mr Kigahe commended WMA for the job well done and insisted that they should continue doing things professionally. He said due to the big improvement in the centre, currently more than 70 fuel tanks of cargo are inspected per day which helps to ease the way of doing business by avoiding congestion. Speaking about water meter, Mr Kigahe said the government has spent 500m/- to buy machines that measure the effectiveness of water meters to ensure the citizens pay the right bills. He said that has helped to reduce longtime complaints about the fake meters from the people and different institutions. “The complaints of fake meters were huge at least after the start of this project. We ensure people are connected with the right device and reduce these complaints,” he said. “We thank the government for the huge investment so that its people are served accurately. The total investment here is around 9bn/- so it is for you WMA to work diligently to make sure there is return on this investment,” the deputy minister said. He said after the completion of this phase at the Misugusugu Centre, the government will start implementing other projects to measure the correctness of gas. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Prof Riziki Shemdoe, said the Misugusugu Centre is an important project which helps fuel tank calibration, water meters and electric meters. He said the construction of supporting building inside the centre was done by using force account method and that is why the cost is very low. Prof Shemdoe also commended WMA management for the improvement of the centre and appealed for implementation of all government directives on time.