YOUNG Africans said they have started consulting government agencies in their endeavour to fast track club transformation saying the entire procedures will be transparent. This was disclosed recently in Dar es Salaam by the club’s advisor on transformation matters, Senzo Mazingiza who named the Fair Competition Commission (FCC), National Sports Council (NSC) and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) as among the firms they are engaging with. “From next week, the transformation committee will begin a countrywide campaign to reach as many people as possible for the sake of informing them on what the whole issue is all about. “It is going to be a transparent process. We have received the final report from the constitution committee to see which sections in it can be changed to accommodate the entire transformation,” Mazingiza said. He added that every week, they will be providing transformation update through the club’s social media platforms from all the concerned people in the process. “For now, our focus is to do whatever necessary so that in the end, we can receive a certificate of club transformation which will be a good news to every Yanga fan. “We do not have time to focus on what others are doing because by doing so, when are you going to find time to do your own things? Let us concentrate on Yanga, we are Yanga...let others do what they know,” said he. Asked to compare about club transformation processes between Tanzania and South Africa, he replied that South Africa began the issues of transformation in 1985 as such, comparing with Tanzania is unfair. “All I can say is that Yanga is on the right track to achieve more. I think in two years’ time, the club should be competing in every CAF Champions League basing on the status of its investment. “We spend a lot of money on players, infrastructure, experts like us and even coaches hence deserve to be playing in the champions league every year or else they must fire us...what are we doing here, to come and eat money? That is not right, we must bring value to the club,” he said. Commenting about stadium construction project in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam, he said they are currently evaluating on the received tenders such that when the exercise is done, they will openly declare who has won it to start the project. Born May 11th, 1979, Senzo Hammilton Mazingiza, nicknamed “Senzo Mbatha”, is a South African sports executive and administrator. Currently he is administrator of Young Africans and former CEO of Simba Sports Club. Mazingiza has been involved in several clubs and international sporting events and most notably the FIFA Confederations Cup 2009 and FIFA World Cup 2010 as its Deputy Tournament Director. Mazingiza have vast experience in the CAF Inter-club competitions, the experience in understanding the requirements of the continental football.