STAKEHOLDERS will hold a two-day dialogue to ponder, among other things, on the establishment of Tanzanian SADC National Committee (SNC) structure for the formulation, coordination and overseeing implementation of SADC policies and strategies at national level. Tanzania has no SNC in place, and in the region only Mozambique has one in place. The virtual dialogue is expected to develop strategies for strengthening engagements between the government, private sector, civil society as well as the media in implementation of the SADC Vision and SADC RISDP. It will also develop recommendations to policy makers to facilitate increased participation of Non-State Actors in SADC regional development programmes. The virtual dialogue to start tomorrow will be coordinated by the Eastern and Southern Africa Smallholder Farmers Forum (ESAFF) and the Southern Africa Trust (SAT), with support from German International Cooperation Agency (GIZ). It will be attended by people from the Ministry of Foreign affairs, Academia, private sector and the media, where it intends to build their capacities and the status of policy processes in the SADC region in various sectors, including Industry, Trade, and Agriculture. Tanzania is set to benefit immensely within the coming decade from the SADC market through implementation of the new strategic development plan. The SADC Regional Indicative Development Plan (RISDP) is the new major framework designed to spur the region into a peaceful high-income industrialised region, where all citizens enjoy sustainable economic well-being, justice and freedom by 2030. Tanzania will benefit by contributing power pool, industrialisation, agriculture transformation, trade, common infrastructure, social development - education, science, and health. SADC is targeting to commission 16,515 megawatts of new electricity generation capacity by 2023, in which Tanzania will commission 4,900 megawatts, just behind South Africa that will commission 5,900. Tanzania will also benefit by exporting various natural resources like gas and agriculture produces to the increasing hungry SADC region. The new strategy SADC Regional Indicative Development Plan (RISDP) was approved in August 2020 by the 40th Ordinary Summit of the SADC which was held virtually and hosted by Mozambique. The new SADC RISDP is based on a firm foundation of peace, security and democratic governance, and premised on three interrelated pillars, namely: industrial development and market integration; infrastructure development in support of Regional Integration; and social and human capital development.