Simba Sports Club this week afforded both their fans and Tanzanians in general a smile after beating their Egyptian counterparts, Al Ahly by a lone goal in a match played at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on Wednesday. The victory was highly significant in that apart from strengthening their position at the Group A level, Simba beat Champions League king pins and that is not a mean achievement. But had Simba not won that crucial match, we would have witnessed a lot of tongue wagging and only God knows where the mouthing match could have taken us to. Apparently on the eve of the match, those who matter in the Simba team saw former Simba chief executive officer, Senzo talking to his fellow South African but who also happens to be the Egyptian club’s chief coach, Pitso Mosemane. Now you know what that means, especially in Tanzania, and when such a meeting also involves a person who has since joined Simba’s arch soccer rivals, Young Africans as the club’s CEO. The incident had almost threatened to get out of hand. But thanks to the salivating victory, the threats melted. However, the incident was very unfortunate. It was unfortunate because you cannot stop two foreigners and from the same country from sitting together in a hotel. What is more, both men do not only know each other, but they have also worked together back home in South Africa. Now that being the case, how do you stop the two South African men from meeting together? We really need to change our attitudes. As we have already said, Simba are now leading their group with six points in their kitty. But that should not make them take off their foot from the gas. To the contrary, they need to keep on pressing, especially when it comes to playing their opponents away from home. We all remember what Simba told Tanzanians about their plans to win all their home matches. They said they were cock sure to win all their three home matches. Their Wednesday victory against the Egyptians marks their first home victory, meaning they are now left with two matches out of three against El Mereikh from North Sudan and Vita. Although Simba had had an elaborate plan of winning all their home matches against their opponents, but their victory against the Democratic Republic Congo’s Vita and in their own backyard must have given them hope that they could also do well away from home. And that is what they are now supposed to start thinking hard. For a start, they need to ask themselves, what did they do, differently, that enabled them to down Vita at their own backyard. The kind of preparation they had undertaken which enabled them to win against Vita away from home should serve as a guideline in preparing their players in readiness for their matches away from home. They also need to make a thorough review over their performance against the Egyptians in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday this week. For instance, I personally noted the following thing. When Mugalu was on the pitch, Simba successfully and relentlessly pressed very hard against their opponents. But when Mugalu was replaced by Meddy Kagere Simba suddenly lost their thrust on their opponents. The difference between Mugallu and Kagere is that the former continues to play even when he does not have the ball. But the latter does nothing the moment he loses the ball. Of course, the club’s chief coach knows better. But he needs to look at the foregoing problem very critically before it is too late. I’m quite sure if Simba played the way they did when Kagere was introduced in the match against the Egyptians in their own backyard, the chance of Simba losing the match is very possible. Secondly, whenever they travel for away matches, their objective should always be to win such matches and not to draw. And that can only happen if they prepare to win and not to draw. Playing in order to win would also boost their campaign not only to reach the semifinal, but also to go beyond the final and who knows, this could also be their year of carting away the prestigious Champions League silverware.