MINISTRY of Communications and Information Technology has signed four contracts of 7.5bn/- for the improvement of national postcode address and expansion of national fibre optic cables. The Minister for Communications and Information Technology Dr Faustine Ndungulile said the government is committed to ensuring the national digital economy and e-commerce platforms are improved to bring the desired impacts in the country. He further noted the national fibre optic cable deal is intended to install 409-kilometre service network covering Singida, Mbeya, Dodoma and Mtwara to Mozambique. On the other hand, the national postcode address contract has been awarded to the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) subsidiary to set the marks in 12-councils. The areas to be covered under the post code contract are cities of Mwanza, Dodoma and Tanga while Morogoro, Moshi, Shinyanga, Ilemela, Geita, Kibaha, Chamwino, Chato and Bahi will get them at their council levels. He said Raddy Fibre Solution Ltd has been awarded two contracts to install the national fibre optic cable with one covering 265 kilometre from Manyoni-Singida-Kambi Katoto to Mbeya. “The contractor is supposed to complete the work as both contracts’ terms are six months starting this month, while another one is a 72-kilometre stretch from Mtwara to Mozambique,” he added. The minister noted TTCL Corporation has been tasked to implement the national fibre optic cable work for the Government City in Mtumba to Msalato area where the international airport is lined up for construction. Dr Ndungulile asked the local contractors, who have been awarded the tenders to complete the work within the agreed time, adding there will be no period extension to whoever will fail to honour the terms, but instead shown the door. He insisted on the quality as value for money is the priority, as well as competitive and reasonable prices is the ministry priority, when it comes to the appointment of contractors. In the same occasion, Dr Ndungulile cautioned the public against misuse of social networks and those involving in cyber-crime as the government has started to take stern measures against the culprit. He said they have netted 17-cybercrime suspects, who will appear before the court any time for conning, use of abusive language and unlawfully possession of gadget to conduct crimes. Equally, he cautioned the public not to take any instruction from unknown numbers claiming to be workers of the mobile phones companies, demanding details of their mobile banking or mobile money details.