PRESIDENT John Magufuli has continued to walk his talk in the first 100 days of his reign in second term in office by ensuring that Tanzanians reap benefits from natural resources and transform their lives. His desire to see mineral resources significantly contributing in improving the lives of Tanzanians was seen right from the day he was sworn in to lead the nation back in 2015. In that regard, the public and the international community witnessed mining laws being reviewed, orders issued and some bold actions taken to ensure the nation gets its fair share from the sector. The President’s push for resource exploitation has continued to be seen throughout his leadership and recently his government struck a deal with a UK firm to develop Kabanga Nickel mining-the world’s largest un-mined high grade nickel sulphide deposits found in Tanzania. In a joint venture between Kabanga Nickel (formerly LZ Nickel) that takes onboard investors from USA, Australia and UK and Tanzania, the project is seen as a golden opportunity for Kagera Region and Tanzanians in general to benefit. The prospective mining site which is located in Ngara District  hosts the world's largest development-ready nickel sulphide deposit, unmatched in scale and grade, with a mineral resource of some 2 million tonnes of contained nickel equivalent. The deal is a gesture of achievement of President Magufuli's vision and directive to ensure that the country benefits from its minerals. In his speech during the inauguration of the National Assembly on 13th November last year, President Magufuli re-emphasised his stance on the construction of industries, smelting, refining and production of mineral products to be done in the country. The president insisted on the transformation of the country’s mining sector to enrich Tanzanians. He noted further that the UK firm, Kabanga Nickel Company will form Tembo Nickel Mining Company in a joint venture, where the government will have 16 per cent stake in comparison to the investors’ 84 per cent. “I want to assure you that our negotiation team did a good job reaching a consensus that all earnings be equally shared between the governments and investors on 50/50 per cent basis. We promised to create eight million new jobs; this project will be part of those jobs, when it starts later this year,” President Magufuli said. He said the establishment of the mining at Kabanga nickel, will go hand in hand with building of a mineral smelter to be used by numerous miners. This, according to him, will bring an end to exporting mineral concentrates, increase income for small scale and large scale minors in the country and create more jobs. “There will be construction of a largest nickel smelter in Kahama District (approximately 300km from Ngara District) and add value in this and other types of gemstones like gold, tin, cobalt and similar others. Such benefits will be realised due to class one nickel found at Kabanga through tax, dividends, loyalties, creation of jobs, growth of business and technological advancement. Commenting on that, Ngara MP Ndayisaba Ruholo told the media recently that the presence of nickel deposits puts Kagera Region in good economic position, due to the fact that when investment will start, a number of factories would also be set up and create more employment opportunities. Among the benefits include the establishment of industries for the production of final products obtained from minerals, as well as welcoming investors in electric vehicle batteries. The partnership will also strengthen the government's reserve, making sure all the money is going to be kept in the country's banks, widening the mining sector and making possible for the construction of more mineral smelters. "I call on other investors; Tanzania is the right place for investment. We have all kinds of minerals, almost every region has gold deposits,   come and invest be… it mining uranium for nuclear exploaraions" said President Dr Magufuli The head of state used the event to ask citizens to take advantage of minerals the country is endowed with. He highlighted Kagera Region as having a potential of discovering more Nickel reserves in Muleba District. Other minerals found in the region are cobalt, silicate, and tin. He said the Rukwa Region had the potential of helium gas which is currently available in only three countries globally. He also mentioned oil and gas and petrol potential, which all were his government’s plan to ensure they benefit Tanzanians. According to him, the mining sector earnings have increased from 168 billion US dollars a year in 2016 to 538 US Billion dollars last year. He expressed his optimism that it will increase the revenues to above 1 million US dollars a year after Kabanga nickel starts production. The government started minerals trading centres recently in different areas in the country. The move attracted more small-miners to the business with the government issuing at least 78 mining licenses in 2019 alone. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the mining sector recorded the growth rate of 15.3 per cent in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the growth rate of 10 per cent recorded during the similar quarter of 2019. In the year 2018, president Magufuli ordered quick construction of a 25km long concrete wall at Tanzanite mining block in Mirerani area of Arusha Region. The primary goal was to combat smuggling of the unique precious gemstones only found in Tanzania. The results were more than what was expected in some ways. One artisanal minor, Mr. Kurian Saniniu Laizer emerged a billionaire in June last year. This was after he mined a 15 kg piece of tanzanite which he sold at 7.7 billion shillings. In August the same year, Mr Laizer also found another gemstone worth 44.8 billion shillings. It is not an exaggeration to term him the most successful small scale miner in the year 2020. The miner said Dr Magufuli will go down the world history books, and will be talked about and remembered for his great strides and epic gained after the current generation is gone. Another artisanal miner Mr Gabriel Sendeu   found   5 tonne ruby minerals worth 1.7bn/- in November 2020. This granted a great hope on poverty alleviation amongst small scale miners in the country. As President John Magufuli hits 100 years in office today, it is a year for smiles amongst the mining stakeholders in the country. He has always been, however, observing that money will be available to only handworkers, implying the government is working hard to ensure it sets favourable policies to govern the mining industry, adding it is the duty of Tanzanians to become rich through creativity and working hard.