A LOCAL volleyball ace David Neeke will be in action this weekend as his Kenyan side, Equity Bank will be in action in Kenyan Volleyball League. The Kenyan outfit will play four matches in the weekend with Neeke being in the highlight. The national beach volleyball member told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Kenya yesterday that they will face tough test against KPA (Kenya Port Authority) today in the morning before taking on Vihiga County later in the day. They will conclude their weekend assignments tomorrow by taking on Prisons Nairobi and AP (Administration Police). “It will be a busy and tough weekend but we are ready and looking forward to face all the challenges,” he said. Neeke said it is going to be tough to face off their opponents who have a good record in their previous match records. The league leaders KPA have so far won all the three matches as third placed Vihiga and Prisons of Nairobi have each won two matches. “ They are among tough matches that we are looking to win to meet our desire of going to the top, we are new team in the league, but we have a strong squad that can beat anyone,” he said. Neeke was delighted to secure contract with Equity Bank Volleyball Club last year, but had to wait to offer his service because of travel restrictions because of Coronavirus pandemic. Sports activities were banned in the country before resumed January this year. Equity accumulated 5 points so far from three played matches to settle at 7th at the field of 13 teams. They have won a game against Kenya Army 3-0, and lost to giants Prisons Kenya and GSU 3-2 each to take home points at both matches. Neeke added that they continue to work hard as team and individual to improve and ensure that they get desirable results. He joined Equity after served Prisons Mombasa also from Kenya. However he said their main target is to enter into ‘play-off’ stage and looking to play in the African Club Championships to face continental top teams. Neeke added that since his ambition is to play professional volleyball in Europe, the continental level events will be very important platform to showcase his skills and reach his desired goal. Unlike in Tanzania, volleyball is played in the professional level in Kenya with top sides recruiting players in the likes of Neeke from different countries.