TANZANIA continues to write success stories in football both at club and national levels, a situation that shows massive investments made in the development of football are now bearing fruits. Competing in major football events is no longer a unique thing unlike in those years when it was rare to see flag carrier football teams featuring in such events and in most cases, it was the neighbouring nations which used to prosper but now, things have made a U-turn. Without doubt, the country is pumping a lot of money to fuel the success of this most loved sport in the world no wonder, the roots of investment have reached deep to make it a profitable business. Definitely, this is what Tanzanians have been eagerly waiting to see happening and this trend should just be maintained to make it a culture of always appearing in classic competitions. Government is now looking at sports sector as a very crucial area which is helping a lot to minimise problems of unemployment as many people are being hired to work at various departments available in this sector. For instance, doctors, cooks, store keepers, cleaners and many others are all being absorbed in sports sector hence they are able to manage their lives through sports thereby it complements government efforts in trimming unemployment hiccups. All these show how important sports is in the country and that a lot of work in terms of more investments should be done to accelerate the speed of its growth. Talking about people who are directly involved in football today means talking about people with good packages to drive their lives meaning that there is no need to treat sport sector as an amateur business. The other indicator that Tanzania is doing well in sports is the influx of foreign based players and coaches who hardly think twice when they are wanted by domestic clubs. Just imagine players are sometimes hired as far as from Brazil to exchange tactics with Tanzanians, a thing which symbolises that a lot of good work is being done to uplift the footwork actions in the country. However, going back to the main subject of success, at the national level, a lot has been achieved and still more, the achievements are oncoming courtesy of flag carrier football teams. This year alone, Taifa Stars and the national Under-20 side Ngorongoro Heroes have managed to stamp a great reputation for the sake of football advancement in the country. Ngorongoro Heroes are still parading in the Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals unfolding Mauritania which happens to be their debut to contest at such high profile football event. This is a great platform for the country’s envoys in Under-20 AFCON event to show the rest of the world what they are capable to do by simply selling their skills. Their age allows them to be hired to play International football wherever they are needed on the universe. On the other side their seniors Taifa Stars recently competed in the African Nations Championship (CHAN) finals played in Cameroon to stamp a record of featuring in the competition twice. On its own, it was a big improvement to play in CHAN finals as it highly helped to write another chapter of success as far as football is known. All these can never go without being appreciated and even though the envoys failed to jump into the quarterfinals, stepping alone in Cameroon needs a big salute. Again, the chances to qualify for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals to also be held in Cameroon are not yet dashed away since Taifa Stars have an opportunity to progress. Packed in group J of the qualifiers together with Tunisia, Equatorial Guinea and Libya, it is evident that Stars can penetrate further if they win their two remaining fixtures. Only Tunisia with 10 points have qualified into the finals meaning that the other spot will be contested by the remaining three teams of which Equatorial Guinea are second with 6 points, Taifa Stars third with 4 points while Libya sit at the bottom with 3 points after four outings apiece. On the club level, both Simba and Namungo deserve more praises for their convincing performances in CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup respectively. The former have already stepped into the group stage while the latter have one more boundary to pass before jumping into the group stages. All these are successes that the country is cherishing about since the two sides compete on the continental level under the umbrella of Tanzania.