THE Embassy of Germany to Tanzania in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government have launched a joint programme that will ensure all citizens, especially adults have equal access to education and skills for employment. In a workshop in Dar es Salaam, Germany’s ambassador, Regine Hess said the programme -‘Support for Adult Education System Building in Tanzania’ will ensure adults also acquire skills which can enable them actively take part in income-generation activities. She further said the embassy underlines the impact of adult learning so that they also become onboard in the country’s development with literacy and numeracy skills imparted to them. “They (adults) need equal access to education, skills for employment and income-generation and as a cross-cutting enabler, this also empowers them to contribute to health, poverty reduction, local economic development, climate change and promotion of gender equality,” pointed out the envoy. Elaborating, she noted the programme will strengthen the implementation of existing government schemes to be easily known adding: “the government and Civil Society Organisation (CSOs) will be assisted to review, analyze, consolidate, and streamline their programmes… to put a well-functioning adult learning and education system in place – a system that provides complementary learning opportunities for adults in Tanzania, fosters their personal development and promotes a knowledge- based society that is able to tackle today’s challenges.” The programme, where Germany has committed more than 1 million Euros will be implemented by the German Association of Adult Education (DVV) International in cooperation with its Tanzanian counterparts in the first phase running until the end of 2022. The programme’s system building approach will draw on the regional experience DVV international has gained implementing adult learning and education programmes in Uganda (since 1985) and Ethiopia (since 1995). However, the DVV International’s regional office for East Africa will be relocated from Addis to Dar es Salaam in June 2021. The workshop was attended by Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Leonard Akwilapo, and the Deputy Permanent Secretary (Education) at the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr. Gerald Mweli, among other government officials.