THE government has salvaged a whopping 38bn/- that was meant to be paid to prepaid electricity (LUKU) sales agents and vendors, thanks to the successful roll out of the Government e-Payment Gateway (GePG). The amount was to be effected by the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) to its electricity vendors countrywide. Addressing the media here on behalf of the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning Dotto James, Arusha Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS)  Richard Kwitega noted that the system which allows customers to pay for public services via cards, internet banking and mobile money, was now paying dividends and further assuring the government of revenue collection. “Traditional methods of payments left out much to be desired, they even gave leeway to dishonest individuals to defraud the government,” observed the RAS. According to Mr Kwitega, the collections have assisted the government in executing its major projects. Detailing further on the success of the GePG, Mr Kwitega singled out Tanzania Forest Service Agency’s (TFS) feat of accruing 115bn/- worth of revenues from 95bn/- that the agency collected before enrolling in the system. Another government institution that has benefitted from GePG is Weights and Measures Agency, whose monthly collection stands at 2.5bn/- from the initial 1bn/-. Earlier, the Director for Financial Information System Management at the Ministry of Finance and Planning John Sausi  said the government had in July 2017 introduced GePG to improve revenue collection management, by harmonising revenue collection processes and improving revenue management by taking advantage of the technological advancement and use of mobile payment platforms. “The system has replaced exchequer receipt vouchers as the government now sees the payments in real time,” he explained. The system, according to Mr Sausi will address payment inconveniences  and has seen the number of government institutions and agencies shoot up to 682, from just seven less than four years ago. Through the system, the Ministry of Finance and Planning has the overall responsibility of managing GePG by ensuring that it provides resources for sustainable and reliable availability of GePG services. GePG is a system through which customers can pay for public services via cards, internet banking and mobile money and through the system; there is uniformity in collection of government revenues, thus increasing transparency, accountability and efficiency. Through GePG, the government has widened its offering of services to regular citizens and opened up business activities to payment service providers, including mobile phone companies and banks.