ALL local government councils must now come up with long term plans that would provide permanent solutions to the shortage of school infrastructures in their jurisdictions, it has been directed. That was said on Thursday in Parliament by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, adding that the councils must also rely on their own resources to undertake the project. The move is aimed at ensuring there is a smooth operation in the education sector, especially during the beginning of every academic year for Primary and Secondary Schools. The Premier further noted: “There is no need for the Councils to keep waiting for orders from the Prime Minister, Vice-President and the President every year… its high time they strategized to bring permanent solutions to the challenge.” In executing the plans, Mr Majaliwa asked the councils to use current projections on their students’ performance while budgeting on the number of infrastructures to construct.” “We don't have to wait until rush hours in December to start constructing classrooms and other related infrastructures. Let's go some extra mile and provide a permanent solution,” he said. His statement was in response to the question of Sengerema MP, Hamis Tabasamu, who sought to know the government's plan in finishing school structures that have been built through joint efforts of citizens from the respective areas. On his quest, Mr Tabasamu said since Tanzanians have been active in supporting efforts on improving the education sector by constructing classrooms and other related infrastructures, then the government has to support the ongoing projects so that they become completed by the end of this month. "Most of the structures that are built by the contributions of 'Wananchi' are incomplete, what are the plans of the government on completing them?” he asked. Responding, Mr Majaliwa asked the local government councils to use their domestic funds to support the projects, adding: “The government has its budget for the projects, but the local government councils must also ensure their timely completion to enable all students who have passed their examinations proceed with studies.” On December 7 last year, he ordered all Regional Administrative Secretaries (RAS) countrywide to ensure employees in their jurisdictions especially in the education sector remain in the office during the Christmas and New Year eve to complete building classrooms and related school infrastructures. He said the move was aimed at providing the officers with ample time to supervise the construction of pending classrooms and desks ahead of the schools opening in January this year. "All classrooms and desks must be completed by February 20, 2021 and all District and Regional Education Officers, Construction Engineers and Procurement Officers should not be allowed to go on leave until February 28, 2021. We need all 3,000 classrooms to be completed by that time,” directed the Premier that time.