TANZANIA has confirmed its readiness to compete in the major continental level basketball champions. The events include Women’s Afrobasket Qualifiers, U-18 Boys & Girls and 3X3 Afrobasket Qualifiers. Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) president Phares Magesa said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations for all events are on a top gear. Magesa said they are waiting for official confirmation from international basketball body (FIBA ) who are yet to confirm on the venues and tournaments’ dates. “All responsible commissions have been already directed by TBF to start their preparations as we wait for FIBA to give us official invitation,” he said. According to him, the commission is tasked to confirm teams’ participation, preparing budget and other logistics. Magesa stressed that they plan to prepare strong teams that can match other top level opponents in men and women’s categories. He said since their coming to power they have been working hard to revive national basketball teams from the youth, senior players and wheelchair basketball. They have all started to gain momentum after being static for many years. He said they currently see tremendous achievement and they will keep on until they reach the desired goals. Magesa explained: “ Through our youth development programme we have seen achievement, our young players in America and Canada are doing fine and we continue to monitor their progresses. “ But we will not seat back, we have put in place sustainable programme to ensure more young players win scholarships and academic benefits.” However, he said that discussion has been going on with sports well-wishers from Canada and America to allow many young players go there. He said that it is important to send many young talents to basketball developed countries so as to sharpen skills and get exposure. Magesa also thanked the government for its efforts and support towards sports development. He thanks them for consistent intentions and efforts which helped them to prepare programmes that have already been submitted to government. “Government has also acknowledged our efforts during this short period, it is among a few chosen sports that will be given priorities.”