GOVERNMENT is taking stock of assets and liabilities of banks whose licences were revoked by the Bank of Tanzania (BOT) in a bid to raise funds to repay customers who had deposits of more than 1.5m/-. Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning Mwanaidi Ali Khamis told Parliament on Wednesday that BOT together with the Deposit Insurance Board (DIB) are working on the matter and that upon completion of the process, all customers will be paid according to the law. This has come in the wake that between 2017and 2018 the BOT revoked licences of seven banks for various reasons. Some of the affected banks were FBME that was also placed under liquidation after being accused by the United States (US) government for involvement in large-scale money laundering. A list of other banks has Njombe Community Bank, Mbinga Community Bank, Meru Community Bank, Efatha Bank, Covenant Bank for Women and Kagera Farmers Cooperative Bank. According to minister, the government handed the matter to DIB whose mission is to effectively contribute to the country’s financial stability by maintaining public confidence in the financial system, and that the board has been repaying the banks customers with deposit of up to 1.5m/-. “DIB has been fulfilling its basic legal obligations of paying customers whose deposits are not exceeding 1.5m/-, plans are underway for those who have more than 1.5m/-,” she said. The deputy minister told the House that by December 2020, DIB had already paid 4.9bn/- to customers of six banks except those who were banking with FBME and that plans are underway to finalise the process. “The payment is equivalent to 77.27 per cent of the total amount (6.3bn/-) allocated for compensation, whereas a total of 21,675 out of 57,076 customers of the banks have been so far paid,” added the deputy minister. Expounding further, she noted that, all customers with deposits of more than 1.5m/- will be paid compensation from the money to be collected by DIB under the ongoing liquidation exercise which includes selling of the banks’ properties. Giving out clarification to that, the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba, assured the parliament that the government has been scrutinising all the banks before they were provided with operation licenses. He said BoT has been doing due diligence to ensure all banks that are established in the country are capable or operating in Tanzania. Regarding the delay of payment to customers of FBME Bank, Mr Nchemba said this has been caused by a number of factors taking into considerations that the bank was operating in two different countries. “In addressing occurrence of this challenge in future, both of players have to take part in it, customers have to be making followup of the bank’s quarterly financial reports, as well as attending annual stakeholders meetings for them to familiarise themselves with the financial status,” he said. Both Mr Nchemba and Ms Khamis were responding to basic and supplementary questions of the Jang’ombe Member of Parliament (CCM), Ali Hassan King, who wanted to know the fate of FBME Bank customers who have not been compensated. FBME Bank is registered in the East African country but has been conducting most of its business operations elsewhere, notably in Cyprus. In July 201, the FMBE Bank was placed under management of the central bank following allegations by the US Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) describing the bank as a ‘primary money laundering concern. In 1982, FBME Bank established its Nicosia, Cyprus, operations as a subsidiary of the Federal Bank of Lebanon SAL. In 1986, FBME Bank changed its country of incorporation to the Cayman Islands and its banking presence in Cyprus was transformed to that of a branch of the Cayman.