THE Fifth Phase Government initiative to increase water availability in the country has helped to reduce the service gap between rural and urban residents and enhance efforts towards poverty reduction in the country. In the past five years of President John Magufuli’s administration, his government implemented a number of water projects which have successfully increased access to the precious liquid by 77 per cent countrywide. According to Chama Cha Mapinduzi Election Manifesto 2020/2025 water projects executed in the past five years has increased water availability in rural areas from 47 per cent in 2015 to 70.1 per cent in 2020, while in urban areas the number of residents accessing clean water has increased from 74 per cent in 2015 to 85 per cent in 2020. During his election campaigns last year, President Magufuli pledged that, if reelected his government will continue to execute various water projects to cover more than 85 per cent of rural population and more than 95 per cent in urban come 2025. In his 100 days of administration since he was sworn in, for the second term, President Magufuli has instituted a number of measures to ensure that the target is realised. The president has ordered completion of all delayed water projects in the country and firing of water contractors who delay the implementation of the projects. The government has also inaugurated a number of water projects, among them, 617bn/- water project that involves piping water from Lake Victoria that will benefit 1.2 million residents of Tabora, Nzega and Igunga districts. The government has also committed itself to complete feasibility study and commence implementation of a water project which will involve pumping the precious liquid from Lake Victoria to Singida, Dodoma and villages adjacent to the water pipeline. President Magufuli also launched 23.17bn/- IsakaKagongwa water project in Shinyanga Region that taps water from Lake Victoria. The project is also a fulfillment of his pledge he made to the residents during the 2015 election campaigns. During that time, residents of the towns were facing severe water shortages against the demand of 4.69 million litres on daily basis, yet only 252,000 litres could be sourced. The new project is expected to serve about 115,660 residents with 9.6 million litres per day that means it has a surplus of 113.3 per cent. University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) lecturer in economics Prof Humphrey Moshi said that water projects being executed by the fifth phase government has helped to reduce the service gap between rural and urban areas. “In the past most of the services such as electricity and water were mostly available in town, but to date the services are available even in rural areas,” Prof Moshi said. He said that availability of clean water is not only crucial for people’s health but also increases efficiency in production because people have good health. Prof Moshi explained that in efforts to realise the country’s industrialisation agenda , the fifth phase government has been ensuring that all important infrastructure are put in place , such as water , education and roads. “This has helped a lot to reduce the services gap between rural and urban residents and enhanced poverty reduction efforts,” he said. He, however commended, President Magufuli for continuing to fulfill his pledges he made during the election campaigns especially on supply of the precious liquid to the Tanzanians. Prof Moshi said that his patriotism and devotion to serve his people has made the country to attain, the middle income status ahead of time. Launching the 617bn/- water project, President Magufuli said water is life and its supply to the citizens should not be taken for granted. Dr Magufuli also ordered water projects countrywide to be hastened and completed, saying Tanzanians want water not explanations about their delays. “Tabora had a special contribution in the liberation of this country that is why I did not hesitate to endorse 617bn /- to implement its project. To bring water from Lake Victoria to here (Tabora) is not an easy task,” President Magufuli said, adding that it was the biggest project to be implemented in the country. Elaborating, he instructed the Water Ministry to ensure it supplies reliable water to the residents of the three districts and extend to Urambo, Sikonge and Kaliua by using 25bn/- saved during the implementation of the project. He equally pointed out that in this 2020/21 budget, the government has set aside 16.5bn/- to further implement water projects in Tabora Region. Water Minister Jumaa Aweso had earlier, narrated how he made several visits to the water projects in the region to make sure the residents no longer face water shortages. “The issue of water shortage in this region was a challenge, and during the election campaigns… that was the main concern from the residents. “President Magufuli pledged to address this challenge and today we are witnessing the launch of this 600bn/- and over project similar to our ministry’s annual budget,” Mr Aweso said. The project produces 54 million litres of water on daily basis to targeted 1.2 million people, whose demand is 37 million litres, hence, a surplus of 17 million litres. “This project has been implemented with high integrity and I have been coming here several times to make follow ups and close monitoring,” he added. However, he noted that the ministry was still determined that Tanzanians living in rural and urban areas will still have access to clean and safe water, adding that bogus contractors will not have a smooth sail with the ministry. According to the National Development Vision 2025 that targets to increase water supply in urban areas by 95 per cent and 85 per cent in rural areas, the National Water Policy 2002 has set a goal that would supply water to the citizens within 400 metres in their residents.