WHEN I was listening to Joe Biden’s inaugural speech, I realized that the issues he highlighted were not only heartening, hopeful, and helpful, but opened the door for Americans and the world to appreciate that the new dawn has come. More interesting, at least on my side, was his several times mentioning God. He was, in my view, clearly ushering in the essential and necessity of faith in the American civic space. So he said: “We come together as one nation under God, indivisible, to carry out the peaceful transfer of power as we have for more than two centuries.” Then he added: “Before God and all of you, I give you my word; I will always level with you. I will defend the Constitution.” And in his concluding remarks he firmly, steadfastly and unwaveringly stated; May God bless America and may God protect our troops. Biden was simply bringing God, religion and faith in the public square, early on as he took over from Donald Trump. Well, history has a lot to tell us. Biden’s philosophy goes back to the time of America’s Declaration of Independence in 1776, the Constitution of 1787, as well as the Bill of Rights, all of which presumed a religious order based on Christ Jesus as their cornerstone and building block. So, in principle it is not a new philosophy, but crucial and indeed decisive at this point in time in the history of America. This is my topic for reflection. Biden’s declaration - one nation under God is not only pivotal for America’s future but it reminds the world that faith in the public square is today gaining momentum, meaning it can no longer be swept under the carpet. No wonder Joe Biden, throughout his speech, he was simply calling the nation to ‘Start Afresh’, afresh with God. I will reflect with you on this proposition. Yes, Biden is taking with him faith in the Oval. He knows how important this is. Indeed, religion’s interaction with Joe’s leadership as the 46th President of the United States of America has come at the right time especially as he reckons the extent to which the unexpected uncertainties surrounding the power handling and the difficulties Americans faced during elections. I note that others have compared Biden’s speech with that of his predecessor, President Trump, though Donald made no mention of citizenship or American collective responsibility, Joe began his presidency with a quite clear and intentional use of collective words and expressions related to his people focusing on governance, democracy and the responsibility of citizens. Well, that is true and it means quite a lot to America and the world. But in this article, my major interest is in the bigger picture of America and the current dimension for understanding the political and religious urgency of this point in time in the history of the US. Much more important and to use the modern buzz words - I am talking about the importance of religious engagement, religious soft power and religious literacy. The words can well be understood within the context of the role of faith in the public space especially amid US challenges - a raging Covid-19 pandemic, economic flop, and historic national divisions and violence that have threatened American democracy. Now can we say America has elected the priest-in-chief, a spiritual leader or to use a famous slogan “man of the cloth”? Is America going to go for faith more than hope? Is Abraham Lincoln, whose soul he connected to his own and to the nation, coming back? Well, one cannot rush into giving a quick answer. Mr President belief - one nation under God may be what America needs now, and I believe Biden is absolutely right and honest on this doctrine but there is more to it. How will his team adhere to this very crucial spirit is what matters. The spirit of trusting in God - the immortal, Supreme being to help America overcome, through struggle, sacrifice, and setbacks, the current ordeals like the nation was able to emerge and survive, in those days, the Civil War, the Great Depression, World War, and 9/11. This question reminds me of yet another proposition made, in a similar context, by Madeleine Jana Korbel Albright, an American politician and diplomat who served as the first female United States Secretary of State in U.S. history from 1997 to 2001 under President Bill Clinton. She once said: “US is a very religious country. Separation of the church and state is part of our credo, but that it is hard to understand since our money says “In God we trust” and every President says “God Bless America”. In a similar way, William Henry Cosby Jr. , an American stand-up comedian, actor, and author , joins Madeleine, and asserts; when we look at the settling of America we see a Bible in hand and God. Every Thanksgiving has God and the peacefulness of gratitude. It was important when the Twin Towers were hit and the sorrow with them that the first thing Congress did was sing “God Bless America.” These two commentators remind us that we live in an age when religion matters more than ever in the modern world. No wonder why research on religion and global affairs continues to grow exponentially across the globe. And Biden enters the Capitol at the time when many are talking about religion and power in world politics. Inside America for example, an important discussion now is how the Biden administration will approach international religious freedom? This is an important matter for discussions because, as many would know, religion intersects with many issues in America and the world politics at large. So when President Biden affirms that the will of the people has been heard and the will of the people has been heeded, and hence looking at America as one nation under God, he is also aware of the place and role of faith and religion on issues like, violence, peace to development, human rights, and foreign policy, to mention a few. So, it is critical that Americans understand what Joe means when he says; we come together as one nation under God, indivisible, to carry out the peaceful transfer of power as we have for more than two centuries. God and all of you, I give you my word, I will always level with you! Obviously, he will not be able to do it alone. He needs a strong team. A team which also understands the purpose, meaning, and all that jazz with faith - faith in the American civic space. It is my prayer therefore that America will go beyond making God Bless America a slang, or rather a jargon, but whenever God is mentioned, let it be an evidence that the soul of America is at best and highest faith in God. And in my view, Biden administration is already offering the opportunity to reset the conversation on God, religion and power in the US and the global platform. Cheers! Dr Alfred Sebahene, PhD Social Ethics Specialist and Anti-Corruption Consultant St John’s University of Tanzania Dodoma, Tanzania Email Addresses: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk, alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: +255 767 233 997