NICKNAMED border soldiers, Biashara United have declared to win all their remaining Premier League matches this season to be hosted at their CCM Karume Stadium in Musoma, Mara. Their vow comes barely one day before hosting defending champions Simba at their turf tomorrow in a mouth watering match with both sides hunting for maximum three points as the league marathon heats up. For Simba, they are aware how important the match is to them since any drop of points will be widening the existing gap with the current leaders Young Africans who still enjoy commanding seat of the league. They will try to divert their CAF Champions League energy into the top flight league by ensuring that they pocket all essential three points from one of the difficult venues in the country. The reigning champions go into the game with the memory of wasting two important points after they were held to a 2-2 draw by Azam in a tough league clash played at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam recently. The Reds have continuously maintained that their mother priority this season is to retain the championship in order to make frequent appearance in the champions league and to easily achieve that, they need to win as many matches as possible. On the other hand, the hosts came from behind to thrash Mwadui FC 2-1 in their immediate league encounter at Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga. Speaking recently, Biashara United’s Head of Communication and Marketing Idrisa Sechambo was in confident mood that his side will shine over Simba in tomorrow’s battle. “We have put in place necessary measures to make sure that we collect maximum three points from each game to be played at our venue Karume Stadium beginning with Simba match,” he said. He added that to achieve their mission of excelling in every home game, they have come up with the theme ‘You Are Now Entering Karume Stadium’ saying that alone is a good reminder for all incoming clubs to never expect a win there. Statistically, he disclosed that out of eight matches they played in the first round of the league, they won five encounters, recorded two draws and losing one game in the process. Francis Baraza’s men are placed fourth on the ladder with 32 points, one point behind third placed side Azam FC.