THE importance of natural minerals being at the backbone of economic growth and development have been known and recorded since prehistoric times, till present day. During the Stone Age, for instance, they sharpened stone (which are minerals) to assist them in killing and skinning animals. Later they enhanced their stone sharpening techniques to be able to hunt for meat from far distances. It is our ability to use wits to refine minerals and use them to satisfy our need and wants that separates us from chimpanzees or monkeys. Even structures that were built between 2550 and 2490 B.C (approximately) such as the Egyptian pyramids and the Great Wall of China built during the Ming Dynasty (1368- 1644) were both built using natural minerals. It is clear that the human race has been and will continue to depend heavily on minerals. To further highlight the links between the economy and the use of natural minerals, we can observe the monetisation of minerals throughout history. Precious metals such as silver and gold were equated to money or used as reserves for payment in exchange for goods and services. Even in our current times, gold is still reserved by numerous central banks for various purposes. In recent past, we note the industrial revolution of Great Britain, which started in the 18th Century. Resources such as coal and iron ore were used in manufacturing plants or machines that were used to make goods and services for consumption. The tremendous economic growth of the United States of America in the 19th Century is also largely attributed to the use of minerals. Today in the 21st Century, we are witnessing the rapid growth of China importing minerals from Africa and other parts of the world to meet their ever-increasing industrial developmental demands; this has contributed a great deal in making them the second-largest economy in the world. According to the World Bank report of 2020, the USA had the highest nominal GDP, which was about US$21.4 trillion, followed by China with US$14.1 trillion. The Natural minerals which they have imported has helped power a significant portion of the Chinese economy. To briefly explain what minerals are in layman terms; it is most of what we see around us. In our buildings, the foundation and walls are made from sands, cement and iron bars, the windows from iron bars and glasses and roofs from aluminium sheets or clay tiles. What we see in vehicles such as engine, body and windows (glass) and tyres, their composition all comprise of minerals . The milling machines (mashine za kusaga u n g a ) , aero - planes, satellites and all machines or tools their composition are sometimes more than 90 per cent by volume or weight made from minerals. Ploughs (jembe la ng’ombe), hoe (jembe la mkono) (except for the wood) is made from minerals. In science minerals are classified into several types depending on their chemical properties and their application. Types include precious metals (for example gold, silver, platinum etc); Ferrous metals (for example iron, chromium, manganese); Base metal or nonferrous metals (cooper, zinc, nickel, tin, aluminium etc); Technology metals, and fuels minerals (coal and uranium). Others include industrial minerals (notably rock aggregates, salt, potash, kaolin, dimension stones), limestone and gemstones such as tanzanite, diamond, rubies, spinel to mention just a few. After Tanzania gained independence in December 1961, we resolved to establish cement plants (as stated in the Government’s second National FiveYear Development plan). There are many records on where we planned to get limestone and gypsum, which are the primary raw materials for cement production. Such endeavours helped us to have many cement plants such as Twiga Cement (Dar es Salaam), Simba Cement (Tanga), Tembo Cement (Mbeya), which are still up and running today. The Fifth Phase Government has delivered us to a middle-income country in 2020 sooner than what was projected in our Development Vision 2025. The Development Vision 2025 is the blueprint that stipulated that we will be a middle-income country by 2025. The policy that the Fifth Phase Government has been pursuing to assist us to achieve middle income social-economic status sooner than planned is through industrialisation of our economy. Eventually, as we continue to industrialise our economy, the demand for minerals will also increase. Demand for any commodity usually stimulates its supply. Generally, in the short-run, the supply of mineral commodities is relatively less elastic compared to the demand increase because it is not easy to increase supply more quickly than presently installed capacity. In a scenario where our continued industrialisation calls for more mineral input, for instance, in agriculture production and we do not stimulate supply quickly enough to fill the gap locally, then the option is to be a net importer of minerals/raw material. Japan in the 1960s and 70s industrialised their economy heavily by being a net importer of minerals. For Tanzania, this is not plausible as there are insufficient foreign currency reserves to pay for imports. By attempting such, we widen further the balance of payment and its consequences. However, if a country has abundant natural resources yet to be extracted, opting to extract them instead of importing provides much multiplier phenomenon. The multipliers include broadening the tax base, expanding employment opportunities and saving foreign currencies. Additionally, it can help reduce the cost of final goods produced. Hence, we will be able to compete with imported consumer goods and export competitively subsequently earning foreign currency. The low-cost pricing strategy of Chinese goods has led them to conquer the global market, and in return today, they are the second most prosperous country in the World, (in terms of economic standing). To avoid becoming a net importer of raw materials and to meet our industrialisation implementation programme; the abundant indigenous resources in Tanzania should be prospected, explored, and its reserve should become known. Furthermore, it will prove highly beneficial to Tanzania’s economy if the natural minerals Tanzania poses be central in the industrialisation implementation programme, and the surplus exported internationally. Julius S. Sarota is a mineral economist and tutor at Mineral Resources – Nzega The opinion in this article are his and do not reflect the position of his employer.