THE newly established Mico International Halal Bureau of Certification Limited Tanzania (MIHB) has availed its strategic plan to set universal halal standards to be used by certifying bodies. MIHB Tanzania Secretary, Sheikh Jumanne Kasonso, said in Dar es Salaam at the weekend that Hafsa was a Turkey Halal Board, which brought together various halal certification bodies across the world. MIHB has also already applied to the Malaysian government body in charge of Halal certification to be a recognised foreign halal certification body in Tanzania. According to Sheikh Kasonso, the supreme Muslim Council of Tanzania (Bakwata) has given the authority to MIHB in supervising halal slaughtering of animals in all slaughter houses in Tanzania. He said MIHB was presently involved in certification procedures that included issuance of Halal certificates in slaughter houses, butchers, restaurants, kitchen and catering facilities and manufacturing firms. He said they inspected, analysed and supervised where applicable, auditing, consultancy and certification and promoted halal products through print and electronic media. He said their objectives were to eradicate doubtful products by continuous inspection from product sources to consumers. He mentioned other objectives to maintain strict criteria for universal acceptability and obtain international recognition based on professionalism. “On hygiene, the staff handling food at any point should be medically examined before appointment and their health monitored periodically throughout their employment tenure,” he said. “Clean and protective clothing should be worn by the staff handling food and visitors who visit food preparations, rejected items will be marked as rejected items and isolated,” he stated. He said MIHB would establish comprehensive and standard cleaning programme for all preparation areas, surfaces, equipment, tools and utensils. He said Halal foods should be stored appropriately and separately from non-halal foods and all stores and cold rooms should be labeled clearly.