ONCE again the All African Juniors Golf Challenge Championship that was scheduled to tee off in Egypt in March this year faces a second cancellation. The event could not be staged as scheduled at last year's edition due to the global Covid-19 outbreak. Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) competition secretary Enock Magile told the ‘Daily News’ in the city yesterday that Egypt was honoured to host the Juniors’ event in March this year in the country after failing to do it last year. He, however, said that until yesterday there was no communication regarding preparation and existence of the event. He said that they will await confirmation from the hosting country to be able to start preparation for the national team golfers. “It is one of the international competitions on our 2021 calendar; we are still waiting for further communication for this year's showdown although the silence has worried us if it might happen. “We understand the new coronavirus situation, but we are waiting for official communication if it is canceled,” he added. The Africa juniors could give TGU’s first international trip, but according to Magile, there is no any sign that the event will be staged this year. “It seems that following last year's fate, it is understandable that every one's safety is more important than the tournament itself, so we now have to focus on other schedules on the calendar,” said Magile. It is an important event that Tanzanian golfers have benefited greatly by testing themselves against the cream of global golfers. The championship serves as the African Qualifier for the Toyota Junior Golf World Cup in Japan, which annually draws top junior golfers from six continents. The All-Africa Junior Golf Teams Championship is a really important annual event for members. Though, South Africa has been benefited more as they dominate the continent and always qualify for the World showdown. TGU will now set sight for the East African Challenge Region 4 Championship which will be hosted in Kampala in June this year. The tournament also faces cancellation like last year's edition, and TGU waits for this year's fate.