PALEONTOLOGISTS say the Earth was created about four billion years ago, on their side zoologists say arthropods were one of the first creatures to inhabit this planet which was going through uncountable climate changes. This is a phylum which is mainly made by invertebrate animals whose their bodies are covered by hard shell called exoskeleton, it is unique feature which is found mainly in the class of insects a group which contain more than 14 thousand species of Ants whose ancestors evolved from wasps about 130 million years ago when the first flower blossom took place on earth. With a body measuring between 0.75 and 52 millimetres, ants are well known with their ability of working together but agility, strength and endurance is what draws attention from different people with different knowledge. Ants are known to use different parts of their bodies effectively but compound eyes with multiple lenses enable these insects to see clearly small particles with different colours including red, yellow, green and blue. Scientists say complete information about an image is obtained when these insects combine data from their eyes and chemical contents collected by Antennae which sense smell, measure weight and temperature, detect direction of wind and taste different source of food. Unlike diurnal elephant and some insects such as butterflies, wasps and honeybees, by putting into practice the information which is collected by antennae and eyes, ants are able to work day and night. As if that is not enough, whoever looks at an ant will be shocked when it passes with a heavy load on its mouth, scientists say these insects are able to lift up and move a cargo which weighs five hundred times more than their own weight. Scientists say these insects are equipped with flexible and powerful mandibles which work perfectly like trunk for an elephant. This is possible because the mouth of an ant is capable of applying a bite with a pressure measuring more than 5,000 times than its own weight, this is only possible among ants whereby some species are capable of carrying loads which weighs between 350 and 1,000 times of their own body weight. It may be seen as miracle but ants have bodies which were created to perform heavy duties in different environment regardless of type of topography or weather condition. This is done when an ant puts into consideration the size of its head, the length and width of its neck and the abdomen against the weight of a load which it intends to lift up. From the time of creation, ants were structured to carry heavy loads because the internal part of their body consist of muscles which work only to support lifting up of different loads unlike mammalians whose bodies depend on muscles to hold and carry it from one point to another. These are one of many features which enable some species to carry a load that weigh between 300 and 1,000 times more than their own body not only that, there are different aspects which contribute to this ability but size of the muscles, body weight, age and health of an individual is very important. In order to lift up different loads, ants use their forefront part which is designed to utilise energy that is stored into muscles which powers their mandibles, necks and three pairs of legs which are located middle part where most body activities are processed. One may wonder how it is possible for an ant to climb on a vertical surface with a heavy load on its mouth, scientists say these insects are equipped with a mechanism which use hocked claws which enable them to move smoothly on different terrains. Their legs are powered by muscles which store and use a bigger position of energy from a light body that is why ants are able to move very fast compared to mammals such as elephants which are made on bigger bodies which from some positions and time become too heavy for themselves. These insects also have powerful lungs respiratory systems which break down oxygen into energy, this is one of features enable ants to run quicker than an elephant when you compare one of the smallest insect against the largest land animal. An elephant depends on its lungs which need big space as storage for oxygen and a network of capillaries and vein to accomplish its duties, ants depend on small spiracles on the exoskeleton which has a special mechanism to bring in clean air and remove out carbon dioxide. Unlike the respiratory system of an elephant, the spiracles of an ant’s body pass oxygen direct into the muscles where a special mechanism is used to break it down into energy which powers movements of the legs, mandibles, antennae and other parts. Meanwhile in the middle of Savannah carnivores such as lions kill and eat antelopes such eland which depends on good supply of grasses while primates, birds and some insects depend on fruits and nectar from vegetation. In what scientists call photosynthesis, due to their unique ability of producing own food by using light and oxygen plants are primary producer of food to all other organisms. This means instead of walking into the bush to hunt an antelope, swimming into a river for fishing or flying into the sky for a prey, plant only deepen their roots into the ground for manures. By doing this, the grasses of savannah are the main factors which are keeping herbivores such as waterbucks, kudu, impala, African buffalo, zebra, wildebeest, Thomson’s gazelle and others in Serengeti. These are prime preys for predators such as lions, leopards, cheetah, African hunting dungs and python which is the largest snake in savannah also are found in the same ecosystem. Zoologists say to complete the chain, at the end of their lives the dead bodies of most of these mammals of Serengeti and other national parks become food to vultures. Variation of supply of grasses in one part of an ecosystem automatically triggers migration of animals from an area with shortage to the one with abundance materials. From the side of mount Meru to the slopes of mount famers bury animal’s manure around their banana trees while in the savannah a dung beetles do this important job which nourishes grasses. Inside national parks, game reserves and other protected areas dung beetles in their millions perform this painstaking job for the benefit of others. Antelopes and other herbivorous drop their dung on the surface which is dominated by natural forces such as wind which blow it away during drought and rain which wash it to the sea during wet seasons. These insects use their antennae to collect different air samples as they scan all area around the savannah looking for droppings from herbivores such as gerenuk, giraffe and reedbuck. In a day single elephant eat about 175 kilograms of food and is able to about 130 kilogram of dung while a medium sized herd with 10 adults having a capacity of producing 1.5 tones within 24 hours. From different parts, the desire for delicious meal force tens to hundreds beetles into one location where three species compete each other without knowledge that on the other side their actions clean the savannah. By doing this these insects start the important stage of recycling of unwanted materials in the savannah where there is no cleaners or farmers to attend this important duty. At this point rollers beetles or dungumavi show their unique ability, in state of art this specie is able to role a ball which weighs 250 time of their size which is one centimeter and weighs between 80 to 160 grammes. In this species male beetles are known to specialise in pulling, pushing and rolling a ball which is more than 1,140 bigger than their own size. The ball is used as a symbol of union between male and female dung beetles who work together in the process of making it before the expectant father roles it to the special selected nest. In a sign of love between the two, an expectant mother always follows behind her partner to provide assistance through difficult positions. This happen because dung beetle role their balls in a straight line but sometime other wicked insect may attempt to steal from them so her presence is very important at this point. In another way scientists say dung beetles roll their balls through a straight line because in the day time they follow rays of the Sun which is located between 93,000,000 and 150,000,000 kilometres away. At the same time scientists say more than one million species of insects have been identified but with a body measuring up to 41 centimeters while weighing four kilograms, the coconut crab is regarded as the largest insect on earth. Coconut crabs are not only bigger, they have long and flexible ten legs capable of stretching up to four meters. Among arthropods, these are very powerful legs which are capable to sprint very fast at a top of 19 kilometres per hour in a pace which make them the fastest terrestrial insects. The coconut crabs general feed on fruits, seeds, leaves, bush flowers, carrions and other organic food at their disposal. The colossal insects have unusual habit of climbing high for more than twenty metres to the top of a coconut tree where the pick coconut fruits. This is a unique ability among nonhuman creatures because these giant crabs are able of selecting good fruits with high quality edible coconut meat. To avoid ending up with an empty shell full of water, the crab will use its powerful antennae to smell the moisture around the fruit which indicates the quality. From a strategic position on a tree, the courageous crab will embark on energy demanding tusk of cutting a pedicel and pushing the coconut fruit using its two arms. It may take several days before the coconut fruit falls down but this is just a part of the time and energy consuming job to the hungry crab. This is a petition and hardworking insect, on the ground the crab will spend three to seven days to remove the first two layers of a fruit which may weigh one kilogramme. This is a very tough job which needs teamwork of others crabs around the shore line where the giant insect live. Coconut fruits are nutritious and rich in energy, carbohydrate, sugar, fat, protein and other important minerals which support the massive body of coconut crabs.