SOMETIMES being a human can be a tall order for some people, believe me, they find it very tough to act like a human being, kusema kweli ubinadamu kazi. You see, when I first started this column, there were some people who really came forward to express their satisfaction with the way I deal with issues, and then there are those who rose up in arms….especially women, walinishambulia sana. These personal attacks were not because Papa Shanga resembles his grandfather’s bull in the village, no, they were directed on my poor self because I have the nerve to speak the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, mkichukia mtanisamehe. When I talk about the challenges of being a human being, I am not targeting a particular gender, because it covers both, but today I really have to descend on the female gender, acha niwaambie wanawake ukweli tu, mkinichukia pia sio mbaya. When God created Adam and Eve, apart from giving them several directives, He also told them that they should go and fill the earth, nendeni mkaujaze ulimwengu, that is what He told them. And judging by the turn of events, it is obvious these two inhabitants of Eden did not need to be coerced to fulfil this command, because if they were, then we would not be here, walienda wakatekeleza amri vilivyo. When two people meet, get to know each other, and finally decide to settle down as husband and wife, most of them know that children come with this arrangement, kwamba mwisho wa siku Mungu akitujaalia tutapata watoto. The issue of whether you will be able to have children depends on several factors, naomba mnifuate taratibu, it depends on whether you want children or you are able to have children, kwa sababu kuna wakati nia unayo lakini uwezo hauna. In our African setting, a marriage blessed with children is the joy of the community, especially for the parents of the couple, because they believe their clan and name will continue to flourish, nadhani mpaka hapo tunaelewana. However, the ability to have a child, whether you want one or ten, does not lie with any of you, because there are times when one cannot bear children, there is a scientific name, it is called being barren…. Kiswahili tunaita ugumba. The ability to conceive or to impregnate play both ways, kuna wakati mwanamke ana uwezo wa kupata mimba but the sperms of the man are weak, hayo yapo. It is unfortunate that there are parents, mnisamehe lakini in this case women, who believe that when a marriage fails to produce children, the fault lies squarely on the female spouse. They will embark on a serious campaign of harassing the poor girl for failure to produce a grandchild, yaani watamnanga mtoto wa wenyewe mpaka basi. “Yaani wewe unadhani mwanangu alikuoa ili uje ule tu na kutujazia choo? We want a grandchild, kama unajua huwezi kumzalia mwanangu mtoto ondoka, there are women out there who are ready to do that job!” This, believe me, is harassment of the highest order. Kwani yeye ndio anatengeneza watoto? And they don’t even take time to find out whether the problem lies with the girl or their son. Hivi do you know that telling someone things like those hurt them in a serious way? I am sure they would also like to have children, actually they yearn to have one, but they can’t. Hivi what do really want them to do, wakaibe watoto? If you think that they do it on purpose, si umzalie wewe basi? This is not fair, kusema ukweli, you make this girl to feel unwanted for a problem which is totally beyond her control. Sio kwamba it is only women who attack these girl verbally, because there are men who also have this problem, yaani kazi yao kumsema tu binti wa watu. There is a case where a couple got married, and three years later there was no child, the husband got worked up, blaming his wife for failing to produce a child for him, alimsema sana. The battle extended to his family, and the mother took it upon herself to make the life of the poor girl a misery, yaani alimnyanyasa sana. It reached a point where the poor girl, after realizing that she had enough, decided to leave and return to her parents, and the sad part is, the stupid fellow sent her divorce papers huko huko, and within a short time he had another woman in his house. Two years later, the girl got another boyfriend and they got married, and within two months she was pregnant, and nine months later she gave birth to very healthy twins, wakati mumewe wa mwanzo bado anatafuta mtoto. It is unfortunate that it took them years to realize that their son was the one who had problems, but because they believe the woman is the only one who can have such issues, they decided to pour the blame on her, ni mambo ya ajabu sana. Hata kama mwanamke ni mgumba na hawezi kuzaa, it is not right to cause her further pain by insulting her, kwani aliamua mwenyewe kuwa hivyo? And who said that a barren woman has no right to be married? Hizi ni akili za kijinga na za kishamba, this woman after finding out that she can never have children is automatically going through enough psychological torture, sidhani kama anahitaji kejeli na matusi. Sometimes it is something which can easily be fixed by a qualified doctor, which means that we need to have patience in such situations, and try to work it out in a more mature manner, sio kupiga kelele kama mwehu. I am telling you these things because they are there, there are so many cases of mothers in law practically kicking out the wives of their sons simply because they cannot have children, sio tabia nzuri, na kama unayo acha!