HIGH Court Judge Lucia Kairo has convicted Datius Clemence (24) from Bwina Village in Bukoba Rural District of manslaughter and sentenced him to 10 years’ imprisonment. State Attorney Juma Mahona told the High Court during the hearing of a criminal case No 53/2020 that the accused committed the offence on September 30, 2019 at about 8.30am. He explained that in that morning Clemence arrived at his mother's house and demanded his working tools using abusive language. His elder brother identified as Gideon Mushamba also arrived and intervened, hit the accused using a stick once on her buttocks. Clemence rushed to his house and returned holding a knife which he used to stab Mushamba twice on the chest and back. A post-mortem report, which was accepted as evidence, showed that the cause of death was due to excessive bleeding. When the accused was called to answer the charge he pleaded guilty to a lesser offence of manslaughter. Defence counsel Theresia Bujiku prayed for a lenient penalty, claiming that the accused was a first offender and he had expressed regret. Before passing the sentence, Judge Kairo denounced the accused’s behaviour, saying a deterrent penalty was necessary for other people who behaved like him. Meanwhile, two teenagers Ladislaus Theonest (17) and Elius Theonest (15) from Chamchuzi Village in Karagwe District, who were facing a murder charge, have been acquitted after the Director for Public Prosecutions (DPP) entered a no-case to answer plea. In criminal proceedings, when an accused is not found with a case to answer, the court will not call him or her to testify to disprove the prosecution's established prima facie case, if any, against him or her. Prima facie means sufficient to establish a fact or raise a presumption unless disproved or rebutted. Prima facie evidence is also establishment of a legally required rebutable presumption. No case for the defence to answer (sometimes shortened to no case to answer) is a term in criminal law, whereby a defendant seeks acquittal without having to present defence. If the judge or magistrate does not accept the submission, the case continues and the defence must present their case.