TWO bodies of a young mother aged 23 years, Dura Simbuya and her son aged three months, Ima Mhando have been recovered on the bank of the  flooded Momba River  late on Saturday. The mother was from Mkolwe Village in Momba District, Songwe Region. Tululu Village Executive Officer (VEO) Christian Hondo said the two bodies have been found on the bank of the flooded river. He told ‘Sunday News’ on Saturday in a phone interview that the bodies had already decomposed. "The two bodies have been buried at Tululu Village since they had decomposed and it was impossible to transport them to Mkolwe Village for burial," he added. According to VEO, the body of another mother Leokadia Simwanza (25) and of her three-year-old daughter Orance Mhando are yet to be recovered as the rescue team is still looking for them for the second day. "Since Momba River is infested with a huge population of crocodiles we fear that the bodies of the duo have been eaten by crocodiles," he noted. He further said the capsized canoe had seven people on board - six of them from two different families. They were travelling from Mkolwe Village in Songwe Region to Tululu Village in Rukwa Region. Momba River is the border separating Rukwa and Songwe regions. Mr Hondo added that the accident occurred on Thursday at about 12:15pm while the canoe was close to Momba River bank at Tululu Village in Kaoze Ward along Lake Rukwa Rift Valley Basin in Sumbawanga District. Mr Hondo said that two children who were also in the canoe cheated death at a whisker after they were timely rescued after the canoe they were traveling in capsized. They were identified as Steve Mhando (19) from Tululu Village who has lost his sister-in-law Leokadia Simwanza and her daughter Orance, while Aron Paschal (6) from Tululu Village lost his mother Dura Simbuya and his sibling Ima Paschal aged three months old. "The two young mothers had their children on their backs,” explained Mr Hondo. He further explained that the captain of the canoe identified as Mr Frank Msandiko was still at large for fear of being arrested by law enforcers. According to VEO, the canoe capsized close to the bank of the river on side of Tululu Village after it was hit by strong currents of flooded Momba River. Sumbawanga District Commissioner (DC), Dr Halfany Haule, arrived at the scene of incident on the same day accompanied by members of the defence and security committee.