THE national Under-17 team, Serengeti Boys has been pooled in group B of the U-17 Africa Cup of Nations, following the draw that was conducted yesterday in Nouakchott, Mauritania by African football governing body (CAF). Serengeti Boys have been drawn in group B alongside Nigeria, Algeria and Congo Brazzaville in the finals which will be staged in Morocco from March 13 until March 31, 2021. While Tanzania have been pooled in group B, the hosts Morocco, who are staging the competition for the second time after doing so in 2013, are drawn in group A with Uganda, Zambia and Cote d’Ivoire. And, according to the draw the hosts Morocco will kick off the event on March 13th, 2021 facing Uganda in the opening match in Rabat. In the draw conducted by CAF Director of Competitions Samson Adam, who was assisted by Mauritania’s legend Mustapha Fall, Cameroon, Senegal, Mali, and South Africa are pooled in group C of the competition. The draw involves qualified teams from different African zones. Tanzania and Uganda are the qualified teams from the East and Central Africa (Cecafa Zone), Mali and Senegal are from the West African council (Wafu A), while Coted’ Ivoire and Nigeria are representatives from Wafu B. Zambia and South African are the qualified teams from the South African zone (Cosafa). Algeria and Morocco are from the North Africa (UNAF), while Cameroon and Congo represent the Central African zone (UNIFFAC). Serengeti Boys sealed a place in the AFCON final after they beat Ethiopia in the Cecafa semi-finals held in Rubavu, Rwanda to set a final date with Uganda. The Cecafa final saw Uganda beating Tanzania 3-1. The Cecafa event was part of pathway to Morocco finals. Tanzania and Uganda had therefore qualified by virtue of being Cecafa finalists. Tanzania will compete in the biennial Under-17 AFCON finals for third consecutive times. In 2017, the local boys also participated in the event held in Gabon and did so again in 2019 when the event was hosted in Dar es Salaam. Serengeti boys have stepped up into shoes of their Under-20 brothers, dubbed Ngorongoro Heroes who also qualified for the Under-20 AFCON finals taking place in Mauritania.