THE Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Mr Edson Makallo, has urged officials of the National Prosecution Services Office to work hard, while adhering to their professional ethics in their workplace. Mr Makallo made such appeal in Singida Region, while opening a training course on the collection, processing, use and handling of criminal case data and corruption records for legal secretaries of the National Prosecutions Service Office. According to a statement published by the National Prosecutions Service Office headquarters recently, a six-day training workshop, which was opened in the region from February 3, 2021, is expected to end on Monday. Mr Makallo said the officials were facing various practical and ethical challenges. He said it was his hope that such training they would receive should be used to help them improve their performance. He said in recent years the world had witnessed major changes in various aspects of human life economically, socially, politically, technologically and culturally, where the effects of such changes included changes in crime planning and implementation. Thus, he urged the legal secretaries who were among service providers in the criminal justice institution to remember that they had great responsibility to ensure they were involved in fighting against crimes by fulfilling their responsibilities. In addition, he said that the National Prosecutions Service Office was well-organised in dealing with acts of moral erosion of public servants where strict measures had been taken against employees defying their professional ethics. He said when public servants adhered to rules in their daily work performance would bring about positive results in the services they provided to the community and, therefore, that increased public trust in the government and created a sense of security. Mr Makallo appealed to the legal secretaries attending training that after returning to their workplace they should use the skills gained to practise and share them with those who could not have an opportunity to expand the participation of training. He also stressed the importance of maintaining confidentiality of information related to the files that reached them and must understand that the issue of confidentiality was a must for all public servants. Six-day training for legal secretaries has been organised in collaboration with the Division of Case Management and Investigation Coordination, as well as the Division of Fraud, Money Laundering and Corruption within the National Prosecutions Service Office. During training, various topics will be covered including the ethics of legal secretaries, keeping and handling corruption filing, collection, processing and submission of case data, maintenance and the office registration system. Other topics include the electronic system for receiving and maintaining records, keeping records and government documents as well as other ethical issues.