COUNTRY representatives in the CAF Confederation Cup Namungo FC have lamented the hospitality they got in Angola and tough times they suffered during their three-day detention in Luanda. The Lindi based side club chairman Hassan Zidadu disclosed that they were not happy with the way they were treated as they have simply suffered without committing any crime and did not deserve what they went through in Angola. “The Angolan authorities never gave us a good reason as to why we had to go through all those problems,” he lamented. However, Zidadu thanked all those who prayed for them, as well as the government and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for intervention. “Inside our hearts, we suffered a lot but we could do nothing, but I want to thank everyone in Tanzania for the prayers you accorded the team, we have arrived safely but three of our players and one official have remained behind to complete the mandatory Covid-19 regulations.” Namungo travelled to Angola to face Primeiro de Agosto in their CAF Confederation Cup playoff leg fixture; however, the match set for last Sunday was called by CAF after the Angolan authorities ordered all Namungo players to self-quarantine owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Following the cancellation of the match, efforts by the team head of delegation to see the team return home were also frustrated by Angolan authorities, forcing the team to spend the whole of Sunday at the airport before they were ordered to return to the hotel. Namungo squad was later permitted to travel back to Tanzania on Monday night and already the team is in the country. However, they are without four members, three players and an official who were detained to undergo mandatory self-quarantine due to claims they had tested positive for Covid-19. The players left behind in Angola are Lucas Kikoti, Fred Tangalu and Khamis Faki, while the official is Omary Kaaya. Namungo were drawn against Primeiro de Agosto of Angola and were scheduled to play against their Angolan opponents on Sunday in the first leg of the playoff, while the return leg was slated for February 21st 2021 at home. Due to the standoff, CAF has moved to call off the match and confirmed the fate of the match will be discussed and unveiled later.