AS Tanzania’s leader Dr John Magufuli is criticised for warning his country people on the danger of using imported masks, the US Homeland Security Department impounded more than 11 million counterfeit N95 fake masks described as “extremely dangerous.” One of the critics of the Tanzanian leader, a self-exiled Tundu Lissu, questioned the validity of the warning legitimately made by the Tanzanian President. Like Donald Trump, he shared a few tweets blaming Dr Magufuli, trying to incite public discord in and around the globe. While his tweets were still making rounds, the US Department of Homeland Security announced the impounding of more than 11 million fake masks which posed danger to the American public. The impounded fake masks in the United States, were without the capacity to protect the user, hence posed great risks to both the user and others around them and suspected victims of the scam included hospitals and medical facilities in at least 12 states. The fake masks purportedly made by U.S. manufacturer 3M, said Steve Francis, director of the Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Centre led by the Homeland Security Investigations. The masks were extremely dangerous He told reporters that “They’re extremely dangerous, they are providing a false sense of security to our first line responders, to American consumers. I can’t stress how important it is to ensure we have the legitimate 3M N95 masks that are being deployed to our first responders.” Mayorkas posed to reporters gathered at his inaugural press conference as leader of the Department of Homeland Security. “How dangerous is the individual confronting a potential Covid-19 infection without any protective gear?” These masks were pretty much like fake drugs which do not heal a disease. It reminds me of a BBC documentary in India where a street woman was putting a flour in a capsule purporting as antibiotic. It enraged the interviewer who told the interviewee she was a mass killer. DHS has notified about 6,000 suspected victims of the massive scam, advising them to check their supplies for counterfeit N95 masks. This seizure by the US Government was an embarrassment to Magufuli’s critics, particularly the outspoken Tundu Lissu. Clearly, Dr. Magufuli, formerly a high school science and mathematics teacher and researcher, would not utter a thing seeking validation of the issue. With court background, Lissu would say anything logical and seek validation later which is detrimental in politics. Although he did not give details, Dr. Magufuli, warned Tanzanians of the imported masks which were potentially dangerous, something which has been validated by the America’s Homeland Office. He said the Tanzanian Government did not disallow wearing of masks but insisted that Tanzanians should strictly go for locally manufactured masks whose safety was guaranteed. Fake Covid-19 vaccine Officers in Beijing, Jiangsu and Shandong, recently seized thousands of syringes filled with saline solution, purported as Covid-19 vaccine. According to South China Morning Post, the Police vowed to crack down on vaccine-related crime as state media urges people to go through official channels to get the jab. Unlike in Tanzania, in China, the politicians did not protest this dangerous scientific concern. Swedish towns ban masks In Sweden, of the towns banned the wearing of masks especially in schools. Officials in Halmstad, the Swedish Municipality, recently forced a teacher to remove her mask and prohibited the use of masks and all forms of PPE in schools. The municipality informed the media that the masks were not fool proof and there was no scientific evidence for wearing them, citing the Swedish public health agency. Meanwhile, the cited agency guidance stated that there were “great risks” that masks would be used incorrectly. In another affluent town of Kungsbacka, Librarians, for example, were also instructed not to wear face masks. United Nations warned on potential bioterrorism A US Professor of international law at the University of Illinois, College of Law in the US, Dr. Francis Boyle, who drafted America’s Biological Weapons Act., was categorical the Wuhan Coronavirus is an offensive Biological Warfare. He also said the World Health Organization (WHO) was aware of this potential danger as warned by Dr. Magufuli too. The UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, last year predicted a growing danger of bioterrorism attacks that aimed to create a pandemic similar to coronavirus. Tanzania has a culture of checking and rechecking the safety of any product or system to ensure it was not potentially dangerous to its people before authorizing its use regardless of who in the world uses it.