THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has recovered over 10m/- which was stolen by two pharmacies after presenting false claims to the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF). Kagera Regional PCCB Chief Mr John Joseph handed cash amounting 10.3m/- to Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC) Brig Gen Marco Gaguti at his office in Bukoba Municipal Council on Wednesday. Mr Gaguti commended PCCB for the good work done also warning workers under the health sector to be faithful and avoid swindling government funds. “The government has allocated a huge budget for improving the health sector to improve people’s lives. Every one of us should make sure the funds are properly utilized those who steal the funds will be prosecuted,” he warned. Mr Joseph further said the institution uncovered a “ghost” medical doctor who had been prescribing drugs to patients seeking treatment at the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital adding that the institution was conducting thorough investigations to establish those behind the racket. Expounding, he named the ‘ghost’ medical doctor as Dr Frida Samwel, adding...”We are conducting thorough investigations to establish those behind the racket and the amount of government funds stolen. However, Dr Frida Samwel’s name is not among the list on the payroll at the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital. Initial investigation has revealed that there was a racket involving several people,” he said. According to Mr Joseph, between May -November, 2016 the unknown Dr Frida Samwel, prescribed medicines to patients worth 304.6m/-. To facilitate the theft, two private-owned pharmacies all based in Bukoba Municipal Council presented false claims to the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF). He named the pharmacies as MK Pharmacy which is owned by Murtaza Pathan, which presented false claims to NHIF amounting 231.9m/- and was paid 10.19m/-. Another pharmacy, known as EJU Enterprises, which is owned by Erick Kiiza, presented false claims to NHIF amounting 72.6m/- and was paid 169,800/-. The Regional PCCB Chief further explained that a total of 9.6m/- which was stolen from the Kagera Farmers’ Cooperative Bank (KFCB), had already been recovered. Also, at least 10.5m/- which was swindled from the Karagwe District Cooperative Union (KDCU) had been recovered while about 7.2m/- which was stolen from the Karagwe District Council and 3,785,700/- which was stolen from Kyerwa District Council had already been recovered. However, he did not disclose the names of the suspects helping in the investigations.