FINANCE and Planning Minister, Dr Philip Mpango has been discharged from hospital, saying he is fit and back to undertake his duties. “I am fit and back to the office to undertake my duties among others to monitor and control the government financial discipline,” said Dr Mpango shortly after being discharged from Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) where he had been admitted for two-weeks. He told the media that the BMH has excellent professional services and that there was no need to opt for treatment abroad. Dr Mpango said the excellent and professional services are a result of big investment the government has injected in the health sector. He said being an eyewitness he will advise accordingly. “I am proud to be treated with young local medical personnel, with excellent expertise, who are patriotic enough. Their services need to be appreciated,” he insisted. “I was taken to BMH while on an oxygen machine two weeks ago and my health condition was bad. I thank God for his mercies and grace that I have been breathing normally for the last three days,” he said. He added, "From the bottom of my heart, I would like to give special thanks to BMH staff, who have worked tirelessly and in a highly professional conduct for the first class treatment.” He said his health has improved and was ready to go back to work and serve the nation in his capacity as finance and planning minister. Dr Mpango paid special thanks to President John Magufuli for keeping a close eye and following up his health progress throughout his admission at the BMH and sending his close aides and medics to ensure he recovers fully. On his part, BMH Chief Executive Officer, Dr Alphonce Chandika said Tanzanians should be proud of the local medical experts in which the government has invested heavily. He was pleased with the confidence of the public officials and senior government officials who have been opting for BMH services instead of seeking treatment abroad. Dr Chandika assured of continued best services for people from all walks of life as they have state-of-the-art equipment and thus in case of shortcomings be communicated for improved services.