SOURCES from Angola had it that three Namungo players, Lucas Kikoti, Fred Tangalu and Khamis Faki and one official, Omary Kaaya will remain being detained in Angola after testing Coronavirus positive. The other delegation of the team, after days of harassment, have been allowed to return back home. Namungo FC have failed in their bid to return home after Angolan authorities asked the team to return to their hotel from the airport on Sunday. The team departed Dar es Salaam for Angola on Friday to play their Angolan counterparts Primeiro de Agosto in the first leg CAF Confederation Cup, which was set for Sunday. But the match was cancelled by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) after the Angolan authorities ordered all Namungo players to self-quarantine owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. With the game being cancelled, Namungo’s efforts to return home with a private jet were stalled as the team spent the whole of Sunday at the airport in Angola and they were finally asked to return to the hotel with reports emerging that three of their players and one official had tested positive for Covid-19. “Namungo players have been ordered to return to the hotel from the airport, where they were planning to board the plane back home after their match was called off,” said an official from Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) in anonymity. On Sunday, Namungo coach Hemed Morocco explained how they had learned from their cancelled game in Angola. He said that the team will now prepare for other upcoming matches.” On cancelling the fixture on Saturday, Tanzania Football Federation explained: “Caf has cancelled the first leg match pitting Primeiro de Agosto against Namungo,” read a statement by TFF signed by media officer Cliford Mario Ndimbo. “The game wasscheduled to be played on Sunday in Luanda but earlier on authorities in Angola had ordered the entire team of Namungo to be quarantined after arriving in Luanda and also be tested for Covid-19. “Owing to the standoff, Caf has moved to call off the match and confirmed the outcome on the game will be discussed and communicated in due course.” Namungo, who are making their debut appearance in the CAF Club tournament, were paired against Primeiro de Agosto of Angola in a draw conducted on January 8.