THE former 5,000m Olympic silver medalist, Suleiman Nyambui, was recently quoted as saying Tanzania will never win a medal in any of international athletics meetings because it does not have any programme for preparing its future athletes. When Nyambui, who spent years in Brunei training long distance runners, made the statement, many in the athletics realm may not have taken him seriously. However, when you look critically at the recently concluded Athletics Tanzania national elections, you suddenly see the likely possibility of Nyambui’s statement. During the election, one of the men who had submitted his name for the post of president in the organization was former Commonwealth marathon silver medalist, Colonel (rtd) Juma Ikangaa. Ikangaa, who is also a graduate of the University of Dar es Salaam and has also a Master’s to his name, is the best known Tanzanian in Japan on account of his series of marathon victories in that country which includes the Fukuoka Marathon. After ties in the race for the post, Ikangaa was dumped and a man who knows nothing about athletics was elected the new president just like his predecessor who did nothing to promote athletics! For yet another term, Athletics Tanzania would be led by people who know nothing about athletics and many Tanzanians would be hoping that Tanzania win an athletics medal in All Africa Games, Commonwealth, Olympic Games and other international athletics meetings. This is the level this country has reached in sports. We elect people who know nothing about a sport they are supposed to lead and those who elect such people know what it means to head a sports organization. Yet they don’t take elections seriously. Now when we get ourselves to a point where we elect people who know nothing about athletics then Nyambui is right in saying what he said, that this country will never see an international athletics medal. But, there still a remote hope, but hope will only materialize if those who know nothing about athletics rope in people like Ikangaa to help them in how best to run the organization. If they do that and now, we may get somewhere. The former Athletics Tanzania boss, Mtaka had told the electorate how he had been assisted by Juma not only in knowing athletics, but also in running it. The man was very honest. But we all know we did not gain much from his leadership. Money could have also been a problem. But the challenge of the new Athletics Tanzania’s new leadership to show us that they can still bring a lot of medals their poor background in athletics notwithstanding. Indeed, if Jose Mourinho has won many soccer trophies including twice the UEFA Champions League with Porto and Inter Milan without playing football there is absolutely no reason why the newly elected Athletics Tanzania should not succeed. But they have no option but to work with people like Ikangaa if they want to succeed. Tanzania need to start getting into regions like Singida, Arusha and Manyara which are people with the same youth you find in Kenya’s Rift Valley, youths who have done wonders in the world as far as international athletics is concerned. It is in the same area where the Simbus, Bayis, Ikangaas, Shahangas to name just a few have come from. Without embarking on deliberate national talent searching programme, we should simply forget about bringing athletic medals from Commonwealth and Olympic Games. There was a time Tanzania was counted as one of athletics giants in East Africa along with countries like Uganda, Kenya and Ethiopia. Those were the days when the world witnessed John Akii Bua from Uganda, Kipchoge Keino, Charles Asati, Ben Jipcho to name just a few from Kenya and from Tanzania we had the likes of Filbert Bayi, Juma Ikangaa in athletics and in boxing we had Commonwealth silver medalist, Titus Simba who has since passed on. Tanzania ruled the world in athletics and boxing because it fully utilized primary and secondary school sports competitions. But during the third phase government, somebody said sports was bringing down academics and decided to ban it! And one of the reasons why we are where we are today is because of that decision and we all, to the surprise of the world, applauded the move that eventually turned the country into a sports Cinderella nation. Now the rules are very clear. You cannot do well in athletics development when you elect people who know nothing about athletics. This is because if it is easy to run athletics in the country through people who know nothing about athletics, then we would have had pilots who know nothing about aviation. This thing should have been stopped by the National Sports Council. But what beats me, they did not. Yet they had done a very good thing in blocking others who had either failed to run the organization or had left the organization in limbo, which includes Nyambui. The point is, the blocking they did to others they should have done the same thing to those who know nothing about athletics.