PRESIDENT John Magufuli has issued a oneweek ultimatum to the Ministry for Home Affairs to pay terminal benefits to police retirees. Speaking yesterday after inaugurating the newly built buildings for the Dar es Salaam Police Academy and laying the foundation stone for the construction of a police uniform production firm, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces said it was not fair for police retirees to start languishing in poverty after their service for the nation. “I am directing you, the Home Affairs Minister, George Simbachawene, to go and make a follow up on the payment of the retirees, and if possible they should be given their terminal benefits in a week’s time,” he directed. “We used their abilities to serve the country during their youth; now that they have re- tired let them enjoy their pension. Nothing is impossible, and money is available,” added President Magufuli who is also the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. He further pointed out that failure to fight for the retirees’ rights and delaying their pension responsibility on the part of the leaders at the Ministry of Home Affairs. “All retirees should blame Minister Simbachawene and his administration together with Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro for not raising their voices to fight for you. I believe if they wanted the retirees to be paid their pension, then they would have been paid by now,” asserted president Magufuli. He said this is a challenge to the ministry’s top officials, saying cases like this should be brought to him only if the Ministry of Finance refuses to dish out the money. The Head of State also commended the performance and efforts of the Police Force for their patriotic work on ensuring safety and peace in the country. “IGP, please convey my appreciation to the entire Police Force. Thank you very much for making Tanzania a peaceful country. You have sacrificed a lot to create respect for this country,” he commended. The President said the significant drop in crime rate, including road accidents is proof that Police Force is fully fulfilling its responsibilities. The President expressed his satisfaction with the ongoing police projects, which prompted him to dish out a total of 1.5bn/- for the construction of two dormitories and a health centre at the Dar es Salaam Police Academy. He asked IGP Siro to make sure the money that will be handed to them by next week gives out results, while using the same system of Force Account in managing the fund. “I will need to know how many buildings of the health centre will be constructed, their standard, and if its value for money can be seen. Once the construction of the dormitories is complete, I want to see our police officers residing in good accommodation facilities,” he stressed. Yesterday, President Magufuli laid the foundation stone for the construction of a police uniform production firm. He also inaugurated new buildings for the police academy located at Kurasini in Dar es Salaam. Meanwhile, President Magufuli turned down a request from Temeke Member of Parliament, Ms Dorothy Kilave who requested the government to assist in paying a 4bn/- loan they took from CRDB Bank. “You want us to pay 4bn/- for the loan that the government was not involved in its processes. The municipality on its own held talks with the bank in meeting sessions that are not even known. Now that you have failed to pay up, you want the government to pay the loan for you? This will not be accepted, carry your own burden,” he said. He said the request from the MP showed lack of discipline in managing government funds, especially when securing loans from commercial banks. “There will be no government to pay for this loan, and the government will send officials to investigate this matter because I can smell corruption. Thanks to the Temeke MP for raising this issue, because it will be investigated while you continue paying your own loan,” he affirmed. He directed the Regional Commissioner of Dar es Salaam and Temeke District Commissioner to make a follow up on the investigation of the matter.