THE country’s flag bearers in the CAF Confederation Cup Namungo are ready to face Angolan side Primeiro de Agosto in the first leg match set to be held at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam on Sunday (February 21, 2021). The Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) recently ruled the match should be played in the country after they suspended the first leg tie which was set to be held in Angola. CAF also directed that aside from both legs being played in the country, the two games should be completed before February 26th this year. The visitors are therefore going to be the host team for today’s match and will be required to cater for all expenses which are demanded to stage a high profile game. This follows a recently ruling by Confederation of African Football (CAF) that ordered Namungo FC and Primeiro de Agosto to play their two-legged Caf Confederation Cup fixture in Tanzania. Before CAF’s decision, Namungo travelled to Angola to play their first leg but the game which was set for Sunday was called off by the African football governing body after the Angolan authorities ordered all Namungo players to self-quarantine owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. On cancelling the game, the African body stated they will issue a direction on the match, and according to a statement from Tanzania Football Federation, the match will be held in Dar es Salaam. The second leg will be hosted by Namungo who are making their debut in the contest and if they manage to stand tall in both legs, they will jump into the group stages of the Confederations Cup. Speaking in the city recently, Namungo chairman Hassan Zidadu described CAF decision to have both legs played in the country as an advantage to his club as far as doing well is concerned. “In terms of preparations, everything is moving well and we are ready to face them. They will be in charge of the first leg encounter while the second leg battle will be under our guidance,” he said. He also confirmed that the three players and one official of the club who were not permitted to leave Angola after testing positive to Covid-19 have not yet arrived back home. “According to reports we have, they will be transported back home when authorities in Angola will be hundred per cent sure that they are Covid-19 free.