DESPITE suffering a painful 2-1 loss to Coastal Union on Thursday, Azam remain upbeat that their mission to challenge for the league title at the end of the season is not yet jeopardized. The outcome seen at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga continue to be a dangerous place for Azam as they usually fail to succeed in most of their league games which unfold at the venue. It was simply a good day at office for the hosts Coastal Union who also desperately needed the victory to move up the league ladders as the marathon gets tough game after game. Speaking at a post match briefing, Azam’s Assistant Coach Vivie Bahati reiterated that they are still better placed to fight for the season’s championship. “There are many games to be played and any team can lose matches while at the same time, we can win more games. In view of this, I am still hopeful to challenge for the title,” he said. He added that the absence of striker Obrey Chirwa on the day never affected them saying the club has got many players who were signed to play football such that when one of them is missing, it becomes a chance for others to steal the show. “We were unlucky because we had more opportunities to score goals but could not use them wisely. Our opponents had two chances of which they managed to score two goals to make the difference of the match,” he said. His counterpart Juma Mgunda hailed his charges for fighting hard to claim the crucial win against a team he described as well organised. “It was a difficult match but I have to thank God, players and most importantly our supporters for the good job they did to rally behind us throughout the tense encounter,” Mgunda said. Moreover, he pointed out that all matches coming up in the second round of the league are going to be tough hence called upon his team to replicate the same spirit in all their upcoming fixtures. Coming fresh from holding defending champions Simba to a 2-2 draw, many people believed that Azam would use the same lyrics to silence Coastal Union but it was not the case. The Ice cream makers side still occupy third slot on the table with 33 points from 19 outings while Coastal Union are now ninth on the log with 23 points.