PRESIDENT Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi on Thursday led thousands of Zanzibaris, civil servants and other political leaders from Mainland Tanzania for the funeral of the Isles’ First Vice President Seif Sharif Hamad. The iconic opposition leader's burial ceremony was held at his home village Nyali Mtambwe  in the North Pemba Region, with thousands of mourners attending. It marked the end of an extraordinary journey of the political giant that began 77 years ago. Mr Hamad died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment at Muhimbili National Hospital in Dar es Salaam. In attendance were former and present leaders including ex-Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, Second Vice President Hemed Suleiman Abdalla, Speaker of the House of Representatives Zubeir Ali Maulid, Chief Justice of Zanzibar Omar Othman Makungu and representatives from political parties. ACT -Wazalendo Party Chairman Zitto Kabwe said that Mr Hamad, who until his death was the party’s national chairman, was a patron of multiparty democracy in the country. "Tanzanians should celebrate the life of Mr Hamad because he lived his life to the fullest," He said his party lost an important person, mediator and counselor who encouraged them to move ahead even under difficult circumstances. Earlier on, Dar es Salaam residents turned up in large numbers at Masjid Maamur Mosque to pray for the departed politician. Several leaders attended the prayer, including retired Union President Jakaya Kikwete. Leading the prayer, Chief Sheikh Mufti Abubakar Zubeir said Hamad's death was a huge loss not only to Zanzibaris but also to all Tanzanians. He said that Mr Hamad was the man of people, "he cooperated with people in different spheres of life and what he did is being testified today." Mufti Zubeir called upon Tanzanians to remain calm and continue praying for the deceased to rest in eternal peace. Immediately after the prayers, the military took over the process to transport the body of Mr Hamad to Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport in a special military van before ferrying it to Zanzibar. Later in the afternoon, Zanzibaris swarmed Mnazi Mmoja grounds in the central business district of Unguja here to give the fallen First Vice-President Hamad a befitting farewell. Tanzania People's Defence Forces' (TPDF) aircraft carrying the body of the fallen icon of opposition politics in Zanzibar touched the Abeid Amani Karume International Airport (AAKIA) at 11: 20am where the army commanders were waiting to carry the casket. From the airport, the body was driven in a KMKM Ambulance under tight military escort to Mnazi Mmoja grounds where President Mwinyi led thousands of the islanders to bid farewell to the second in command in the revolutionary government. Weeping and sobbing Zanzibaris lined up on both sides of the road as the convoy escorting the casket that carried the late Hamad's body was driven from the airport to Mnazi Mmoja through Airport and then Maisara roads. Mnazi Mmoja grounds had overflowed as early as 9am, with almost all Zanzibar streets crowded. All businesses in the city centre were literally closed for half of the day yesterday. The scotching noon sun deterred nobody from attending the sad gathering, which also attracted Union Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Second Vice-President of Zanzibar Hemed Suleiman Abdalla, former Union Vice-President Mohammed Gharib Bilal, former Zanzibar presidents, retired and current ministers, among other dignitaries. The body was briefly prayed for before being transported to Wete District in North Pemba for burial. Meanwhile, the East African Community (EAC) yesterday sent a condolence message following the passing on of Zanzibar's First Vice-President Hamad, commonly known by the name of Maalim Seif , hailing him for dedicated service to his people and country. In his message of condolence to the President of Zanzibar, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, EAC Secretary General, Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko said it was with shock and regret the Community received the sad news of demise of the ACT – Wazalendo Chairman. Ambassador Mfumukeko said Mr Hamad was a great leader, who was committed to peace, political stability and economic growth not just for Tanzania but the entire EAC region. “It is with shock and regret that we at the East African Community have received the sad news of the untimely demise of Seif Sharif Hamad,” said the diplomat in a signed letter. He said Hamad was a veteran politician and public servant for many years, beginning in the 1970s during which he served the government in various capacities. The EAC Secretary General praised the late Hamad for his commitment and readiness to work in the Government of National Unity (GNU). “This was a positive development for Zanzibar in that it guaranteed peace, political stability and economic growth not just for Tanzania but the entire EAC region,” said the Burundian diplomat. Mr Mfumukeko conveyed his heartfelt condolence to President Mwinyi, to the late Mr Hamad's family, relatives, the people and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar.