NEW history books in Tanzania will begin to be published at a new plant under the Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) on March 15, this year. This was stated on Tuesday in Dar es Salaam by the Minister for Education and Science and Technology Prof Joyce Ndalichako when she visited the plant to see the progress made. The 6bn/- plant, which is expected to be completed on March 15, 2021 consists seven modern machines with different functions to publish books. “We want to start publishing our books and other publications by March 15, this year. We will start by publishing new Tanzania history books, which are expected to be used for teaching in schools from July this year,” said Prof Ndalichako. Tender to procure and install the machines was awarded to Achelis (Tanganyika) Limited and according to Minister Ndalichako, the work was supposed to be completed on February 26, this year, but the firm requested for two weeks extension to complete the work. The firm cited that their experts from outside the country could not arrive in time to complete the work due to Covid-19 travel restrictions in their respective countries. The company resorted to use local experts. However, Minister Ndalichako said if they fail to hand over the work at the agreed time, the government will start deducting money according to their contract. She said there has been a tendency for contractors to delay work and ask for extension citing various reasons. “I want you to complete this work in two weeks so that we can start our primary and secondary school publications,” said Ndalichako. Ndalichako said the positive increase in students has forced the government to deal with them, especially on learning materials. On his part, Achelis (Tanganyika) Limited Head-Graphics Division Theobald Stephen said they bought modern machines capable of printing 15,000 colour sheets per hour. He said initially, the plant was being configured by foreign and domestic experts but due to Covid -19 restrictions, the foreign experts were unable to return to Tanzania to continue working.