TIGO Tanzania has launched a tree-planting initiative dubbed ‘Tigo Green For Kili’ project in Hai District with an initial target of planting 10,000 trees as a part of efforts to conserve Mount Kilimanjaro. Speaking during an official launch of the project at Mkwamakuu primary school in Hai District that was also graced by the Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner, Anna Mghwira, Tigo Tanzania Northern Director, Henry Kinabo said the telecommunications company is sponsoring the tree planting campaign to protect the Africa’s highest mountain. “We felt that, there is a need to do more in the Kilimanjaro Region by planting tree,” explained Kinabo. He further explained that, planting trees will help the restoration of the snow on Mount Kilimanjaro that they have notably seen decreasing for the past several years due to global warming. “It is unfortunate that residents of the area have been cutting down trees for firewood, illegal logging and forest fires,” he said. Mr Kinabo further explained that, the telco is ambitious to help restoring what has been taken away from the iconic mountain which several decades back had a massive glacier at the peak. “That is why Tigo Tanzania in collaboration with the charitable-based organization called Voice of Empowered Women Foundation (VOEWOFO) came up with ‘Tigo Green For Kili’ project,” he explained. For her part, the Director for VOEWOFO, Asifiwe James Mallya applauded Tigo for coming up with a noble project to conserve Africa’s top. “We are looking forward to the afforestation of the whole Kilimanjaro Region as we kicked off this project in collaboration with Tigo Tanzania, and the move is a major step towards reaching a target of making region greener for future generations,” she explained. The Kilimanjaro RC Ms Mghwira applauded Tigo for coming up with a noble project to conserve Mount Kilimanjaro. “Take this project as yours, and I urge all stakeholders to join forces and donate a tree seedlings, so that the great Mount Kilimanjaro can continue to maintain its snow cap,” she said. During the event, the Iringa-based Diary industries ASAS donated a total of 1,000 trees, while the Tanzania Forest Services (TFS) promised to donate a total of 10,000 trees, a promise that was given in the event by the Zonal Deputy Manager for TFS in Northern Zone, Neema Mawanja.