AZAM have maintained that their target to win the championship at the end of the season remain unchanged saying they will only surrender when they become sure that the race is tight for them. This came after stamping a hard earned 2-1 victory over Mbeya City on Thursday at Azam Complex in the city, a win which saw them reaching 36 points from 20 matches. It was a good reaction from Azam to maximise all three points after losing their previous league game to Coastal Union and it was the first home win for the team’s incumbent coach George Lwandamina. Prince Dube seems to be back on the scoring track for those aiming to win the golden boot as he pumped in the second goal to give his side a much needed triumph on the day. However, in his reaction, Azam Information Officer Thabit Zakaria narrated that their chase for the title is still there until the stage when they will see that it is impossible for them to clinch it. “Out of 34 matches to be played this season, we have played 20 games meaning that 14 encounters to play. You can see that the team which tops the table now (Young Africans) are now struggling to get good results. “Here, the most important thing for us is to continue winning our matches like the way we are doing while monitoring the situation of what is happening to other teams,” he said. He added that his side continue to transform game after game such that soon, the team chemistry will work out better for the club. On his part, Mbeya City coach Mathias Lule said despite the loss, his side will not fall into the relegation trap as many people believe. “Yes, we have lost today (Thursday) but remember we have almost ten games to be played at our home from where we can fight hard to collect maximum three points from each game and then we can climb up the ladders,” he said. Mbeya City are now 17th on the ladder with 15 points after 20 matches similar to bottom placed Mwadui FC only goal difference separates the two teams. They surely need to win as many games as possible should they want to stay put in the contest next season or else, the jaws of the relegation door will be awaiting them