STAGGERING Young Africans have claimed to have assembled enough arsenal ready to gun down Mtibwa Sugar as the two sides faceoff at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Yanga will be eager to end their winless spree in three consecutive matches which saw them grabbing draws and in the process dropping two crucial points. Since the start of the second round of the league, Yanga have not won any game from the three encounters they were exposed to, something which gave a room for their closest challengers Simba to narrow the point gap. As it stands now, only four points separate the league leaders Yanga from the second- placed Simba who are leaving no stone unturned in their mission to retain the championship for the record four times back to back. Yanga have 46 points after 20 games will defending champions Simba have accumulated 42 points from 18 clashes and the latter have two more matches in hand to play. However, a recent 3-3 stalemate against Kagera Sugar at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city was a choking outcome for Yanga in their quest to battle for the title at the end of the season. Heading into today’s duel, the hosts will desperately be searching for a victory since any drop of essential points can surely be detrimental to them as the road to the title chase become bumpy and narrower as the matches unfold. Overall, the Jangwani Street-based side have registered a total of seven draws this far thereby losing 14 crucial points in the process. On the other hand, Mtibwa Sugar are not a side to be underestimated especially when they face big teams as they have the same characteristics to Kagera Sugar. They were also held to a 1-1 draw versus Ihefu FC in their previous game as such, searching for vital three points from Yanga will be their number one priority and here is where the difficult part of the game originates. From 19 outings, Mtibwa Sugar have garnered 23 points to sit 11th on the ladder and from the trend of their performance in the league, they also deserve to fight hard to win most of their incoming games to avoid fighting for relegation. So far, Mtibwa Sugar and Mbeya City are the only sides to have scored few goals (9) in the progressing league and the former have conceded 13 goals