THE Geological Survey of Tanzania (GST) has been advised to conduct geological researches in various parts of the country, which result into desired transformation in the mining industry. Minister for Minerals, Mr Dotto Biteko gave the piece of advice here on Tuesday, while presiding over a ceremony to handover six vehicles worth 950m/- to GST to enhance their geological researches. In his call, he reminded them to always come up with new findings, which ensure their presence is felt on the ground and address challenges for the growth of industries. Mr Biteko in his observation noted geological survey was important in the mining industry, thus they must conduct them with the required standards, because their findings are beneficial in the sector’s growth. He said the government is proud of the work being done by them, adding this justifies them to be supported with the vehicles as working tools. Elaborating, the minister directed GST, which is equipped with the best accredited laboratory, to link up with regional mining officers and the mining commission, to collect samples and test them. “Come up with the best logistics that will help your clients to bring samples to your nearest offices, where you can afterwards, collect and bring them to Dodoma for testing, and that is the best practice and more convenient,” he added. Equally, he tasked them to set up an online platform, where the clients can access them, saying: “Where the forms can be filled online and they get the results without the need of one travelling all the way to Dodoma for the findings. “GST has to increase productivity and continue boosting the mining sector’s contribution in the national economy.” In a related development, Mr Biteko directed the GST Chief Executive Officer to file him a report within six month, explaining how the working tools (vehicles) have increased productivity.” Commenting, his deputy Prof Shukrani Manya said the vehicles should be used to meet the intended goals and improve efficiency and service delivery, and not otherwise. “Those who will be using these vehicles must ensure they take good care of them, because the government has provided them to the institutions, so that they facilitate transformations in the industry,” said Prof Manya. In response, GST Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr Mussa Budeba said the vehicles will ease transport they have been facing, adding: “They (vehicles) will motivate staff to continue with their work diligently in the field.”