I WOULD like to thank readers of this column including Mr Zephania Ubwani who inspired me to write this article. Scientists say the Earth is the third planet from the Sun and the only astronomical object known to harbour life, from their side paleontologists say the Earth was formed about 4.5 billion years ago when the universe expanded due to what scientists say very high density and high temperature which resulted from the initial expansion that took place about 13.8 billion years ago when the universe came into being. History of the world tells us that life on this planet was possible after a primitive process of photosynthesis came into existence which followed the evolution of oxygen into the Earth about 3.5 billion years ago, scientists believe that this important chemical element appeared earlier about 3.7 billion years ago when the atmosphere was composed mainly of volcanic and greenhouse gases. The evolution of plants which used photosynthesis became a catalyst for existence of life on the ancient plant because the process began to enrich the atmosphere with good amount of oxygen about 2.4 billion years ago when the world was still dominated with microscopic organisms. Through combination of biology, geology, biochemistry, mathematics, and engineering scientists are able to uncover what happened on Earth more than 3.5 billion years ago, this is what is called paleontology, a study which involves the use of fossils to classify organisms and study interactions with each other and their environments. Meanwhile it is believed that, after creation the Earth’s surface was covered by water and there was no any living thing on it. About 3.5 billion years ago to make life possible on Earth, the almighty God accumulated the water mass in one place and named it ocean. On the other side the ocean and sea is what scientists today are using the word Biosphere to represent the liquid mass which occupies the largest portion of the Earth. It’s believed that Biosphere came after the decrease of hot waves from the core centre which is also known as Asthenosphere and as a result this led into the emerging of Lithosphere or dry land with fertile soil which also supports lives of animals, plants and microorganisms. Earth’s lithosphere is divided into several rigid tectonic plates, these plates are stiff segments that move relative to each and it is believed that in a speed of a fingernails grow which take between three to five million years these plates to migrate across the surface. This is what geologists call continental drift which is a movement of the Earth’s continents relative to each other. With this in mind, scientists say at the beginning of time the Earth had one supercontinent. A continent is one of several very large landmasses on Earth, paleontologists say Ur was a supercontinent that formed about 3 billion years ago and perhaps the oldest continent on Earth, in the early period of Ur’s existence, it was probably the only continent on Earth and all other land was in the form of small granite islands and small landmasses that were not large enough to be continents. Geological history of the Earth shows Vaalbara was one of the ancient supercontinent which existed more than 2.8 million years ago, fossils records show that before the existence of this supercontinent about 3.5 billion years ago the planet was hit by massive meteorite which caused high temperature on the surface of the planet, this action from super natural power left carbon-rich meteorites and lunar soils in different parts of the ancient continent. A series of international drilling projects in Australia and Africa has revealed through traces of microbial life in Vaalbara supercontinent is one place where life started. Between three and five million years Vaalbara crumbled due to series of volcanic activities which caused thermal expansion which forced the supercontinent to break and a new smaller continents formed before drifting away to form a new supercontinent about 2.7 billion years ago. During those days, life on this supercontinent started in a complicated situation because oxygenic photosynthesis first evolved and released an abundance of oxygen, that first reacted with minerals and afterward was free to react with greenhouse gases of the atmosphere, leaving the Earth’s surface free to radiate its energy to space. That was Kenorland; one of the earliest supercontinents on the ancient time of the Earth. Paleontologists say Kenorland was formed as a result of a sequence of accretion events and the formation of new continental crust, scientists say during this process, before the total breakup of Kenorland for some millions of years Laurentia became a supercontinent which evidence of its existence is found in the whole of North America, Greenland and Scotland. During those days the atmosphere was composed of volcanic and greenhouse gases. Eukaryotes, a more complex form of life, emerged, including some forms of multicellular organisms. Bacteria began producing oxygen, shaping the third and current of Earth’s atmospheres. Plants, later animals and possibly earlier forms of fungi form but geological evidences indicate that Kenorland started to breakup when underneath volcanic activities caused tectonic rifting about 2.4 billion years ago. About one billion years ago at the time when the world was experiencing lower temperature on its surface, several continents from Kenorland supercontinent drifted and assembled to form Rodinia a new supercontinent which was located across the Equator, derived from Russian language the name of this ancient continent means the motherland. Paleontologists say while being surrounded by one super ocean, Rodinia was formed by accretion and collision of fragments produced by breakup of an older supercontinent. Scientists say Rodinia was almost barren land because the ozone layer in the sky was not as extensive as it is today, due to this fact ultraviolet light discouraged organisms from inhabiting its interior, on the other side its existence did significantly influence the marine life of its time. After series of powerful volcanic activities which caused extensive lava flows and volcanic eruptions that lasted for more than 250 million years Rodinia breakup about 750 million years ago. From the Equator the fragments from Rodinia drifted southward for about 100 million years before they assembled in the southern hemisphere into the south pole where Pannotia a new supercontinent was formed about 650 million years ago. Fossils records indicate that when this supercontinent was formed, South America and Africa was surrounded by other continents of today’s world. Pannotia was formed through a geological in which the ocean lithosphere is recycled into the Earth’s mantle, this a process of subduction of exterior oceans. Pannotia supercontinent was dominated by bacteria which occupied the ancient world right from the beginning of time more than 4.5 billion years ago. Scientists use the word snowball Earth because at that time the global ice sheets may have delayed or prevented the establishment of multicellular life on Earth because temperature fell so low that the equator was as cold as modern day Antarctica. Pannotia the supercontinent dominated the world for about 100 million years before it disintegrated about 550 million years ago due to changes in sea level rise, dramatic variations in climate and ocean water chemistry. The breakup of Pannotia gave rise to another supercontinent, that was Gondwana which extended from a point at or near the South Pole to near the Equator. Gondwana included most of the landmasses in today’s Southern Hemisphere, including Antarctica, South America, Africa, Madagascar, and the Australian continent, as well as the Arabian Peninsula and the Indian Subcontinent, which have now moved entirely into the Northern Hemisphere. Gondwana supercontinent was dominated by mild weather, that was the time when the world was on average considerably warmer than it is today and due to that fact Gondwana became a host to a huge variety of flora and fauna for many millions of years. Gondwana began to break up when the world was rocked by massive eruptions of basalt lava, as East Gondwana, comprising Antarctica, Madagascar, India, and Australia, began to separate from Africa. South America began to drift slowly westward from Africa as the South Atlantic Ocean opened. Meanwhile paleontologists say more than 450 million years earlier when Rodinia broke up, it split into three pieces which created two super oceans while most of its masses coalesced again to form the relatively short-lived supercontinent of Pannotia, on the other side that was one many steps which resulted into the formation of a new supercontinent. By this time, Gondwana was positioned near the South Pole and glaciers were forming in Antarctica, India, Australia, southern Africa and South America. At the same time Gondwana itself headed towards Euramerica, causing an ancient ocean to shrink. All these and other volcanic activities led to the formation of Pangaea a new supercontinent which emerged about 300 million years ago after smaller continents were assembled together, different researches indicate that much of Pangaea was in the southern hemisphere and surrounded by a super ocean, Panthalassa and this makes Pangaea to be the last supercontinent to have existed. Different fossils which were recovered from South America and West Africa indicate that ancestors of all reptiles dwelt in the Pangaea, these were around 1 meter in length, with webbed feet, a streamlined body, and a long tail that may have supported a fin. One fossil indicate that it probably propelled itself through the water with its long hind legs and flexible tail. Its body was also flexible and could easily move sideways, but it had heavily thickened ribs, which would have prevented it from twisting its body. reptilians came into existence on the Earth more than 541 million years ago when there was one huge continent called Pangaea. About 231 million years ago, it was on this super continent where Rukwatitan Bisepultus and other dinosaurs dwelled in the land where Tanzania and other east African countries are found today. Paleontologists say through three stages Pangaea breakup about 175 million years ago when rifts on sea floor stretched west and eastward ultimately giving rise to the new supercontinents Laurasia and Gondwana. Geological history of the world shows Africa was formed more than 2 billion years ago, also different researches show the continent remained firm regardless with what was happening with others and that led to the rise of new continents such as Eurasia which was formed from 375 to 325 million years ago.