PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has assured the government’s commitment for timely implementation of the priorities unveiled by President John Magufuli when inaugurating the 12th Parliament on November 13, last year. Right now, the government is finalizing arrangements for the implementation of all incomplete priorities as stated in the 2015/2020 CCM election manifesto, said the Premier in the House on Tuesday. Mr Majaliwa was moving the motion for the legislators to discuss President Magufuli’s inaugural speech in the 12th Parliament regarding his government’s plans for the next five years following the October 28, 2020 General Election. “The ministries and government departments started to work on the priorities immediately after President Magufuli gave out a speech, as a result, the implementation has started at a high speed,” Premier Majaliwa told the House. The Prime Minister added that, in implementing the 2020/25 election manifesto, the government would ensure proper supervision and execution of all new priorities for effective delivery of the same. The Prime Minister insisted that the government has already started to work on all the priorities underlined in the 2015/2020 election manifesto and that all departments have done an in-depth analysis and devised strategies for smooth execution of the new priorities. According to Mr Majaliwa, the government has set short, medium and long term plans and strategies that will see all the priorities are implemented accordingly. In his speech to inaugurate the Parliament, President Magufuli insisted that the government will supervise and execute all development plans highlighted in the 2020/2025 election manifesto, as well as those contained in his inaugural speech in the 11th Parliament on November 20, 2015. Addressing the National Assembly in November, last year, President Magufuli said his government was looking to improve macro-economic and monetary policies as well as ensuring that all economic indicators, interest rates, inflation and shilling value remain stable. He said his government will continue to improve the education sector, by providing free basic education as well as increasing the budget for Higher Education Students’ Loans Board (HESLB). “We will also continue improving infrastructure in schools including building new laboratories, dormitories, classes, hostels, libraries, lecture halls as well as offices and houses for teachers,” he pledged. The president also promised that for the next five years, the government would continue improving the National Water Fund (NWF) by providing more funds so that it would be able to execute various water projects. “We will also accomplish the implementation of grand water projects including the 1.2tri/- project for supplying water in 28 towns, water project from Lake Victoria, which is being implemented at the cost of 600bn/- as well as the Arusha water project estimated at a cost of 520bn/-,” he noted. Some of the other sectors that are up for improvement as pledged by the Head of State are; agriculture, tourism, fisheries, livestock keeping, infrastructure, energy, mining and industrial development, as well as development of science and technology. In the agricultural sector, Dr Magufuli said the government would improve irrigation schemes, agricultural inputs and agro machineries, capital loans towards farmers as well as spearheading a war against post-harvest loss. He also spoke of the government’s intention to establish different agricultural insurance schemes to assist farmers in the country. Prime Minister Majaliwa assured legislators that the government would work on all the suggestions and recommendations to be issued during the debates that will be concluded on Friday, this week. “President Magufuli is highly determined to uplift the economy of Tanzania and create enough employment opportunities, and then it’s a responsibility for Members of Parliament to make better use of this opportunity in sharing their ideas for the greater interest of our country,” he appealed.