YOUNG Africans face another uphill task in the ongoing top flight league as they take on Kagera Sugar in their 20th round of the season at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The Jangwani Street based side will be playing their first match this year at the giant stadium in the city and their last game at the 60,000 capacity venue on December 6th last year against Ruvu Shooting they earned a 2-1 victory. Entry charges for the hot match have been pegged at 15,000/- for VIP A while VIP B and C will go for 10,000/-. Ordinary seat occupants will be compelled to pay 5,000/- apiece. The two sides meet for the second time this season with the hosts winning the first round battle 1-0 at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera courtesy of DR Congo import midfielder Mukoko Tonombe who netted the solitary goal. After today’s encounter, Yanga will host Mtibwa Sugar at the same territory on Saturday for yet another tough duel as the march towards the league throne escalates. Yanga still lead the 18- team table with 45 points from 19 matches and have an opportunity to stretch their lead in case they flourish in today’s duel against one of the good teams in the contest. They, however, head into the clash with a negative mentality after being held to a 1-1 draw by Mbeya City in their previous encounter at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya last Saturday. It was an eventful game as many things transpired throughout the normal 90 minutes of play including the last minute penalty which was awarded to the hosts and resulted to their draw. The draw was Yanga’s sixth of the season as they continue enjoying unbeaten run from 19 matches they have played this season which has seen them scoring 30 goals and conceding eight goals. However, Kagera Sugar have always been a thorn in flesh for Yanga whenever they face in all competitions and a win will see them earning three crucial points to scale up from their current 10th spot on the table. They also dropped two essential points in their previous game against Gwambina FC after a 1-1 draw hence they too would like to seize all three points from the best pitch in the country. Under the tutelage of Mecky Mexime, Kagera Sugar narrowly missed relegation last season and they need to fight hard to ensure that this season, everything should be right for them.