DURING his 100 days in his second term as the President of the Republic of Tanzania, President John Magufuli has managed to strengthen the country’s diplomatic ties and making the nation socially and economically, a force to reckon with in the globe. The Head of State hosted a number of high profile delegates in the country including those from China, Ethiopia and Mozambique. The Chinese Councillor and Foreign Minister, Wang Yi, was the first to raise the curtain for the country to receive highranking diplomatic delegates from other countries in the first 100 days of President Magufuli’s second term. The Chinese Foreign Minister’s visit to Tanzania came following a telephone conversation between President Magufuli and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping in December, 2020. In his address to Mr Yi, President Magufuli proposed three major requests, including asking the country to cancel debts that Tanzania owes China. This is the second time Mr Wang is visiting Tanzania. He came in the country for the first time in January 2017. Speaking after an official event of signing a contract for construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Mwanza–Isaka, Dr Magufuli said he had requested Beijing to cancel debts because China was a true friend of Tanzania. The debts, according to the Head of State, include 15.7m US dollar the country borrowed to construct the Tanzania and Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) in early 1970s. Another debt amounted to 137m US dollar acquired for the construction of some military buildings. Already, he said the government has cleared about 164m US dollar and at the same time sought the Chinese support in the construction of the three major hydropower projects. “I have asked him to send my request to the President (Xi Jinping) that they help us in the construction of three major hydropower projects in Njombe, Lumakali and Luhuji,” Dr Magufuli explained. Being the Union President, Dr Magufuli further asked for China’s support to construct 148-kilometre highway in Zanzibar. Elaborating, the president asked the Foreign Minister, Wang Yi to look into the possibility of issuing a concessional loan to finance MakutuporaIsaka SGR stretch. In another development, Dr Magufuli said that the visit by the Foreign Minister had opened yet another opportunity for Tanzanians to tap and win the Chinese market in selling their various agricultural products as Tanzania steps up efforts for economic diplomacy. Dr Magufuli said Tanzania will continue collaborating with China, basing on the strong foundation and brotherly relationship between the two countries. He said it was high time Tanzania and China put up stronger economies for best interest of the two countries. On his part, Mr Yi lauded President Magufuli’s decision to prioritise construction of transport infrastructures, saying that was the right path towards realising speedy development. “In China we say if you want to get quick development, you should construct transport infrastructures, and this is what we did in our country. And this is what President Magufuli is currently doing, and I believe it will bring development like ours,” Mr Wang stated in his speech. A day after he flew back to China, Tanzania hosted Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi. The two Presidents agreed to intensify security and economies of the two countries, as well as those of the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) member states; the main focus is improving the livelihoods of people. Speaking at a joint press conference after holding talks and gracing a meeting with technical teams from both countries, both President Magufuli and the visiting President Nyusi expressed optimism that their deliberations would soon bear fruits. “During a tete-a-tete we had enough time to discuss the challenges facing our people in the two countries, as well as all SADC member states, the main focus being on building stronger economies,” said Mr Nyusi, who doubles as the incumbent SADC Chairman. The Mozambican leader told journalists further that apart from security and economy, they had time to discuss how they could improve transport and infrastructure, which he said were key for peoples’ centred development. “I believe that our meeting will bring positive results in the near future for the interest of our people,” added the visiting Mozambican leader. Speaking on the same occasion, Dr Magufuli also reemphasised on the need to build stronger economies for the two countries, as well as ensuring that security was guaranteed to people. He further took time to remind Tanzanians and the people of Mozambique to further strengthen bilateral diplomatic, social and political relations that were initiated by the founding fathers of the two nationsMwalimu Julius Nyerere and Eduardo Mondlane. “The friendship between Tanzania and Mozambique shall remain in existence today, tomorrow and even the day after tomorrow,” insisted Dr Magufuli, adding that there was no reason whatsoever that could deter the two nations from continuing to collaborate. Statistics from the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) show that bilateral trade on exports between the two countries has increased from 76.4bn/- in 2018 to 93.5bn/- in 2019. After the Mozambican President visit, Ethiopian President Sahle-Work Zewde also landed in Chato District during the same period. Upon her state visit, President Magufuli declared to release nearly 1800 Ethiopian illegal immigrant detainees, saying that was an indication of how the two nations have good relations. President Magufuli declared the unconditional release of all 1,789 Ethiopian inmates in different prisons countrywide over illegal entry to Tanzania. Some of the commentators who spoke over the decision argued that the move was a big lesson for other countries as far as humanity was concerned. Giving his viewpoint, University of Dodoma lecturer Dr Paul Loisulie said the decision has set precedence to other countries that it was not necessary to apply laws on every circumstance but rather humanity. “These people fled their country over life hardship and they were en-route to South Africa in seeking a better life, so freeing them is to show humanity,” Dr Loisulie argued in a telephone interview with the Daily News. Dr Loisulie said President Magufuli has set the precedence that when the same situation occurs in other countries that they may consider looking on the matter with an eye of humanity rather than clinging to laws. He further said that the move was good in strengthening diplomatic relations between the two countries. His views were echoed by Dr Frank Tily, also from the UDOM, who said Dr Magufuli has shown compassion to citizens from fellow African country, adding that the move was economically viable. “That was to show sympathy after all keeping them in jail does not bring any benefit to our country because those people were just passing through Tanzania heading to another country,” Dr Tily opinioned. Another scholar, Mr Emmanual Mallya of the Open University of Tanzania (OUT), said Dr Magufuli has demonstrated high level of cooperation by freeing the Ethiopian prisoners. “This is good thing when it comes to cooperation between countries. I also believe that during their talks they did not only discuss over releasing the inmates but also how to control the big flow of Ethiopian illegal immigrants,” Mr Mallya stated