AFTER every 30 minutes to boost and announce its presence within a neighbourhood, cock crow very loud but that ritualized cry has nothing to do with a ritual to attract a sexual partner because a cock will perform a special dance which goes along with a click sound from its strong beak, in the middle of savannah a male lion makes a wicked offering by killing cubs of his predecessor, this cruel act is not done out of hatred or revenge to the lioness who refused to accept him, after taking over the pride lion kills all cubs who are below two years of age and this is  done to force the milking females to force them into estrous period and this situation happens when lioness refuse the new male into the pride. Different researches in Tanzania indicate that sexual selection of mates by lionesses appears to favor males with the densest, darkest mane. Scientists say the presence, absence, colour, and size of the mane is associated with genetic precondition, sexual maturity, climate, and testosterone production; the rule of thumb is the darker and fuller the mane, the healthier the lion. Meanwhile, sexual selection is defined as a method of natural selection in which some individuals out-reproduce others of a population because they are better at securing mates. The concept of sexual selection arose from the observation that many animals had evolved features whose function was not to help those individuals survive but to help them to maximize their reproductive success and this manner can be realized in two different ways, first is to make an individual to be more attractive to the opposite sex second is to intimidating, deterring or defeating same-sex rivals. Scientists say sexual selection takes two major forms which are intrasexual selection also known as male to male competition whereby members of the less limited sex compete aggressively among themselves for access to the limiting sex. Scientists believe that in all species of animals this competition happens because the success of an organism is not only measured by the number of offspring left behind, but by the quality or probable fitness of the offspring: their reproductive fitness whereby sexual selection increases the ability of organisms to differentiate one another at the species level. Intersexual selection which is also known as mate choice or female choice whereby males compete with each other to be chosen by females for the intersexual selection to work one sex must evolve with a unique feature for alluring the opposite sex and in this case the peacock provides a particularly well known example of intersexual selection, where ornate males compete to be chosen by females. The result is a stunning feathered display, which is large and unwieldy enough to pose a significant survival disadvantage. In the animal’s kingdom different bird species often demonstrate intersexual selection, perhaps because of their lightweight body structures whereby fights between males may be ineffective or impractical therefore, male birds commonly use the following methods to try to seduce the females the use of colour whereby some species have decorative, assorted, and often colorful feathers. Birds also use visual stimuli such as bright colors or large decoration for social and sexual communication as well as species recognition and scientists say these ornaments can be considered “honest” signs of fitness because they are often costly to produce and show that the individual is healthy enough to mate with the choosing female meanwhile different researches indicate that a peacock loss its eyespots on its tail feathers which are also known as trains, there is a significant decline in mating success compared with a control group. The most common explanation for this adaptation is that the females gain indirect benefits such as good genes for their offspring. Peafowl are species whereby males provide no care to their offspring, therefore females do not gain any direct benefits from mating with more elaborate male. Multiple hypotheses attempt to explain the evolution of female choice. Some of these suggest direct benefits to females, such as protection, shelter, or nuptial gifts that sway the female's choice of mate. Another hypothesis is that females choose mates with good genes. Males with more exaggerated secondary sexual characteristics, such as bigger, brighter peacock trains, tend to have better genes in the peahen's eyes. In this characteristic of sexual selection, the peacock's train and iridescent plumage are perhaps the best known example of traits believed to have arisen through sexual selection, male peafowl erect their trains to form a shimmering fan in their display to females. A peacock's copulation success rate depends on the colors of his eyespots and the angle at which they are displayed, another research indicated that the angle at which the eyespots were displayed during courtship ritual was a more important factor in a peahen's choice of males than train size or number of eyespots. During the display the lower tail feathers which are also known as trains are usually evaluated during close-up courtship ritual, while the upper trains are used of a long distance attraction signal but scientists say actions such as train rattling and wing shaking also kept the peahens' attention. The peacock 'tail', known as a 'train', consists not of tail quill feathers, but highly elongated upper tail coverts. These feathers are marked with eyespots, best seen when a peacock fans his tail. Both sexes of all species have a crest atop the head. To be chosen by a partner peacocks first defend their territory through intra-sexual behaviour, defending their areas from intruders. They fight for areas within the congregation to display a strong front for the peahens. Scientific researches indicate that during this struggle central positions are usually taken by older, dominant males, which influences mating success. Certain morphological and behavioral traits come in to play during inter and intra-sexual selection, which include train length for territory acquisition and visual and vocal displays involved in mate choice by peahens. Peafowl are forest birds that nest on the ground, but roost in trees, they are terrestrial feeders and all species of peafowl are believed to be polygamous. However, peahens entering a green peacock's territory may be really his own juvenile or sub adult young and green peafowl are really monogamous in the wild. Unlike males who use their long tails for sexual attraction, females use their long plumage on the tail to ward off female competition or signal danger to her young. Both sexes of all species have a crest atop the head. Meanwhile from Dar es salaam to Dodoma the Indian peahen is known with a mixture of dull grey, brown, and green in her plumage. While this is happening among peafowls, in the middle of savannah some birds use beautiful song as male birdsong provides an important way of protecting his territory. Nest construction is also used in some species as males build nests that females subject to rigorous inspection, choosing the male that makes the most attractive nest but other species dancing before females is used to attract partners Scientists say dancing is an act which involve rhythmical twisting of a body under a strong influence of well arranged melody voice or beats which also goes systematically to entertain the dancer or others that is why a strong male Kori bustard will make a special sexual inviting boom sound which awake female birds from their nestles be located 100 meters apart. Just like Chagulaga traditional dance among the Sukuma people of Lake Zone, in the savannah with the heaviest bodies among flying birds one male Kori bustard will show himself by dancing before 25 to 40 females whereby he inflates his throat with air and erect his head and twist its 39.5 centimeters long tail feathers while walking majestically in a slow motion then eight to ten beautiful female Kori bustard fall in love and allow him to bread with both of them. Tandawala is the Swahili name for these amazing birds and in Serengeti, Tarangire, Mikumi and Ruaha national park their breading season start just before rain season or between August and February but in the dryer grassland of Savannah Ostrich in the period between the month of March and September when a breading season for the heaviest bird on Earth begin a dominant male will perform a ritualized dance before a dominant female which involve shaking his wings up and down, twisting the tail while bowing down to ask for acceptance from his wife. If it’s ok with her the dominant female will seat down and allow him to mount her then other low ranking male members of the flock are free to bread with other low ranking females because in Ngorongoro Crater or other park where these birds dwell they are obedient to their laws and customs. Ecologists say Tandawala is the Swahili name for Kori bustard but they say the secretary bird is another large bird who are endemic to savannah forests of sub Sahara Africa are monogamous and during breading season the male bird has to perform a special ritualized dance which include chasing of each other while their wings are help up joyfully before they stop and mate on the ground. Ndege Karani is the Swahili name for a secretary bird which is another bird also very good in romantic dance which start by a chase to safe place where female will stop and male perform a dramatized dance which involve rhythmical twisting of his body and head to stimulate sexual chemical reaction to his partner while jumping into air to show his strength to encounter any physical challenges of life. Email:  HYPERLINK "mailto:rstanslaus@yahoo.com" rstanslaus@yahoo.com