FOLLOWING a 6-2 blitz over Primeiro de Agosto on Sunday, Namungo coach Hemedi Morocco has urged his players not to celebrate now saying they still have a reverse game to play. The country’s solo envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup smashed the Angolan based club in the first leg tie at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam while hoping to stamp another success in the second leg clash on Thursday at the same venue. Both legs were passed to be played in the country by the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) hence it has been an advantage for the home side who have created a good path towards reaching into the group stage of the contest. For a long time, the country has lacked a team to feature in the group stages of the confederation cup but, it seems that the long wait is finally over courtesy of the Ruangwa based outfits. “I think we should not celebrate yet because we have one more match to play against them. They are a good team not to be written off as such, we need to get back to correct our shortfalls prior to the return match. “Even though we have won today (Sunday), there are many mistakes we made hence this is the time to correct them,” said him. He continued that playing both games at home is an advantage to them as such, winning the first encounter has opened a new chapter for his side. “What I can say is that my game plan worked successfully as we managed to get back into the game fast enough despite conceding an ear goal which otherwise could have transferred our focus,” he noted. A word to Tanzanians, Morocco encouraged them to rally behind Namungo saying they are representing the entire country and they will do whatever necessary to win the second leg match and make it into the group stages. In his remarks, Namungo chairman Hassan Zidadu assured supporters that in the next game, they will be allowed to enter inside Azam Complex arena to witness the game. “Today (Sunday), our colleagues (Primeiro de Agosto) were the owners of the match and banned fans from attending but in the next encounter, we will be the hosts hence people should start preparations to come and support us,” said him. Namungo, who are making their debut in the confederation cup won the privilege to parade there after becoming finalists of last season’s Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC).