tourism agents are expected to participate in the 2021 Swahili International Expo (SITE) that will take place in October this year. The Managing Director of the Tanzania Tourism Board (TTB) Ms Devotha Mdachi said in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, adding that the expo will also cater for 170 local tourism agents with special emphasis on the southern tourism circuit. “In this year’s expo, tourism agents will be exposed to the southern circuit particularly the Nyerere National Park which was established in the year 2019. Mafia Marine Reserve will also be part of the sites marketed to agents and international journalists,” she highlighted. Nyerere national park is the largest national park in Tanzania, also one of the world’s largest wildlife sanctuaries. The total area of the park is 30,893 km² and covers the Coast, Morogoro, Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma Regions. Equally, Ms Mdachi used the avenue to welcome tourism agents to register and pay for their participation fee, saying early registration will 50 per cent scrap off. “For the agents who will pay for expo hut before May 30th this year, will have the fee halved to 640 US dollars instead of the previous 1,280 dollars.” The TTB’s Acting Director of Marketing Mr Joseph Sendwa said that this year’s expo comes at the time when the sector is shaken by coronavirus pandemic. He persuaded domestic tourism agents to use the expo and insist on domestic tourists. Mr Sendwa said that various groups involved in cultural entertainments like drums, songs and sports to take part in the expo. He said that tourism sector was recovering steadily from coronavirus effects as many tourists from the nations of Israel, Poland and Hispania were coming in the country at a convincing number. “About 236,393 tourists have visited various tourism attractions between the month of November and December last year. There was a great sign that the sector is recovering immensely. We expect SITE 2021 to boost the sector by increasing number of visitors in the future,” he said.