WAILS rented the air inside the Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium on Friday as Arusha residents, in their multitude, turned up to pay their last respects to former Regional Administrative Secretary Richard Kwitega. The multi-purpose stadium turned into an ocean of people, as residents thronged the sports facility to bid Mr Kwitega farewell. Eulogising the fallen RAS, Arusha Regional Commissioner Iddi Hassan Kimanta said he was heartbroken since the news of Kwitega’s untimely death started filtering in on Wednesday afternoon. Fighting tears, Mr Kimanta described the fallen RAS as a loving and an illustrious leader who wouldn’t even hurt a fly. “We thank God for the wonderful life that he gave him and the opportunity he gave all of us to work with him,” said the visibly shaken Regional Commissioner. The deceased was an astute administrator who worked diligently for the welfare of the region. Mr Kimanta further revealed of last moments he interacted with the former RAS, which was at a meeting of licensing firearm owners. “He was jovial and full of life as always,” recalled Mr Kimanta. Former RAS Jackson Saitabau also paid tribute to Mr Kwitega, remembering him for his hard work and honesty in public service. “He always went an extra mile while discharging his duties,” he posed. Delivering his homily at a Requiem Mass held at St. Therese of the Child Jesus earlier on, the Auxiliary Bishop for Arusha Archdiocese Prosper Balthazar Lyimo urged congregants to trust in God for comfort as they continued to mourn Mr Kwitega’s demise. The mourning service at Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium was preceded by tributes from religious leaders and representatives of government agencies and institutions based in Arusha. Others who took to the dais to deliver their eulogies are Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner Anna Mghwira, her Manyara counterpart, Joseph Mkirikiti, and Loota Sanare of Morogoro. Ruling party representatives, led by CCM Regional Chairman Zelothe Stephen also eulogised Mr Kwitega. The former RAS died in a tragic road accident that happened along the Makuyuni- Babati road on Wednesday. Mr Kwitega died after his vehicle got involved in a headon collision with a passenger bus christened Makara, which was heading to Arusha from Babati. He was pronounced dead upon arriving at Magugu Health Centre. Mr Kwitega was in April 2016 sworn-in as the Regional Administrative Secretary by President John Pombe Magufuli. He had replaced Ado Mapunda who retired from public service. His body was due to be airlifted to Mwanza for burial in Ngoma village, Sengerema District. He leaves behind a widow and four children.