PRESIDENT John Magufuli expectedly swept to landslide reelection win, securing his second five-year term following the last October 28 General Election. His excellent performance during his first five-year term more than warranted his celebrated return to the State House. From about 8.9 million votes (58.5 per cent) in 2015 to 12.5 million votes (equivalent to 84 per cent) in 2020, Magufuli's latest triumph was truly extraordinary and well-deserved. With the historic landslide victory, President Magufuli returned to the State House apparently feeling the burden of huge expectations from his people. But who else? He had certainly surpassed the expectations of every single Tanzanian, even his detractors. It is the reason he had such a walk in the park reelection bid. But he is not resting in his laurels. He is a man in mission and ever committed to the cause. President Magufuli's quest to lead Tanzanians to Promised Land is relentless. This true son of the soil just started from where he finished off, probably more determined than ever to deliver his party's as well as personal promises. In his bid for a second term, Dr Magufuli promised voters that he will boost the economy by completing ambitious infrastructure projects he started in his first term,  improve social services and ensure the country and Tanzanians benefit from the abundant natural resources available in the country. A man of high standards To achieve his development goals, President Magufuli has always tried and picked the best team to help while regularly pushing his aides hard to ensure they live up to his expectations. Dr Magufuli has always demonstrated that quality; a man of high standards who would never tolerate laxity among his appointees. While he took a while before picking his next cabinet, no single appointee was certain of making a return to his previous or new post. Even Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, his trusted lieutenant, was left in the dark prior to his reappointment for the post for the second consecutive term. The Ruangwa Member of Parliament almost broke into tears when his name was announced by Speaker of the National Assembly Job Ndugai in the House as the President's pick for the Premier post. Selemani Jafo was unarguably one of the best performers during President Magufuli's term. But still his performance was not up to the president's required standards as he himself revealed while administering oath to his new cabinet. Dr Magufuli revealed that he was not satisfied with the minister's performance in controlling funds allocated for development projects at regional and local government authorities. While a host of ministers and deputy ministers from the previous cabinet failed to impress the Head of State and were left out, those who were lucky enough or did good enough to warrant reappointment and the new ones were reminded of the high demands of their dockets. President Magufuli stressed on hard work, ethics and integrity as he administered oaths to 21 Ministers and 22 Deputy Ministers on December 9, 2020 at Chamwino State House in the capital city, Dodoma. As the nation marked its 59th Independence Anniversary, President Magufuli called upon his ministers to increase their performance and safeguard national interests. Dr Magufuli highlighted a number of challenges facing each and every ministry and asked his appointees to go and address them efficiently, expressing high expectations on his new cabinet -- a blend of experienced and young ministers and deputy ministers. He directed Mr Jafo, the Minister of State, President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Selemani Jafo to deal with all unscrupulous officials in local government authorities who were misusing public funds. Dr Magufuli directed Energy Minister Dr Medard Kalemani to make sure that the remaining 2,338 villages that were yet to get electricity are connected, and warned the Minister against indecision. He also asked the minister to begin the implementation of the Njombe Hydropower project, which upon completion will pump into the national grid about 350MW of electricity. Dr Magufuli noted that minerals were still being smuggled outside the country, and asked Minister for Minerals Doto Biteko to be bold in dealing with mineral smugglers. He said despite having a wall at the Mirerani's Tanzanite Mining area, still people were entering the compound and walking out with gemstones. Dr Magufuli also directed the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba to ensure that peoples' rights were protected as well as increasing pace in the dispensation of justice. He ordered the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Doroth Gwajima to ensure the country does not become a trial ground for medicines. Looking to promote investments, the President asked Professor Kitila Mkumbo to ensure that all bottlenecks that were impeding investment in the country were removed. Getting closer to wananchi President Magufuli would likely go down in history as the Head of State who was closer to his people, touring the country regularly to inspect development projects as well listen and address burning issues affecting his people. This was the hallmark of his first tenure and his first 100 days of his second tenure show that he is taking the same route. During these first 100 days, President Magufuli has continued to visit various parts of the country inspecting ongoing development projects, launching new ones, and attending wananchi's problems. His aides, from Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, ministers to deputy ministers have all been spending most of their time on the field, supervising the implementation of the CCM manifesto. Strengthening bilateral ties President Magufuli has during his presidency succeeded to strengthen bilateral ties with countries across the globe. During his second term's first 100 days, the Tanzanian leader has hosted high-profile leaders from Africa, Asia and Europe, who toured the country looking to bolster their relationships with the East African nation. Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi landed in Chato District, Geita Region on January 8, this year. During the talks, Dr Magufuli expressed Tanzania's readiness to deepen cooperation with China, expand exports to China and attract more Chinese investment. For his part, Mr Wang said China and Africa are comrades-in-arms who share life and death, brothers who care for each other, and partners for common development on the way forward. Three days later, Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi also arrived in Tanzania for a one-day official visit. He was received by his host President John in Chato, Geita region, northwestern Tanzania on January 11, this year. Bilateral relations between the two countries on key areas of economy, politics and social affairs topped the agenda of the talks between the two leaders. Two weeks later, President Magufuli received Ethiopia's President Sahle-Work Zewde, who landed in Chato for a one-day official tour of Tanzania. The visit aimed at consolidating the existing diplomatic relations between Tanzania and Ethiopia through exploring new areas of cooperation, including trade and investment. “I have requested the Ethiopian president to let Tanzanian investors in the livestock sector to invest in Ethiopia and learn from their counterparts,” he said. On her part, President Sahle-Work Zewde said she had come to congratulate the president on his re-election and they have agreed to establish cooperation in new areas of trade and investment. Following the talks between the two leaders, President Magufuli pardoned 1,789 convicted migrants from Ethiopia who sneaked into the country on their way to South Africa on different occasions.