‘MAKUTIYANI’ is an invasive type of grass that grows and rapidly spreads in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA). The grass has turned a livestock enemy, especially to cattle, though not poisonous, but also not edible (by livestock). A survey by the NCAA in collaboration with the Pastoral Council found this new type of grass covering a larger area of the authority, hence, creating shortage of livestock pastures. “On this situation, the cattle grow thinner and thinner, with an awkward look. Some tourists do even ask if that is the meat they are served in hotels here,” NCAA Personal Assistant Conservation Commissioner Elibariki Bajuta said in an interview recently, affirming that: “Eventually, the Authority came up with a decision to support the pastoralists through provision of the highbreed type of cattle, which match with any available environment.” Bringing the new type seemed of most importance, especially after the survey also showed that the weather condition wasn’t supportive to the available traditional livestock in the area. As a result, community members remain in poverty while at the same time suffering from illiteracy, he said, adding: “Providing high-breed cattle was part of the authority’s strategies to support the community, basing especially on the fact that members are strictly forbidden from engaging in any human activities for environmental preservation purposes, as well as wildlife wellbeing. The new type of cattle, therefore, is to enable pastoralists switch to modern animal husbandry that provide quality and quantity products to boost the country’s economy. It is also aiming at reducing the traditional livestock population in the conservation area. “A big number is just a prestige but not productive at all. Pastoralists currently benefit only from animal selling, but not from any other cattle product, be it the milk or skin. Their cows provide a very minimal amount of milk to feed only babies,” Bajuta said, stressing that: “A-high breed cow has the ability to produce not less than 20 litres of milk per day.`” “It also provides healthy calves, plus standard skins. Thus, we set replacing this traditional type of cattle to let pastoralists have a small number but productive. Big number has been also triggering human-wildlife conflicts when bush animals attack the other side.” Modern animal husbandry is characterised by, among other things, a few number of cattle but big turn-ups, even if one opts selling the animal because the bull has not less than 150 kilogrammes. In collaboration with some higher-leaning institutions, including the Sokoine University of Agriculture, NCAA is on final stages of bringing in the new cattle type. However, Mr Bajuta admitted that removing traditional cattle was a gradual process that needed regular awareness to pastoralists, telling especially advantages of modern animal husbandry technology. Bajuta says while convincing the community to adopt such a modern technology, the NCAA has been serving the available traditional livestock through provision of vaccines. In collaboration with District Councils, which provide veterinary experts, NCAA has been also making available the livestock dipping and water drinking centres. “That is how we gradually move on with this community towards adoption of new animal husbandry. Many animals are found dead sometimes caused by wild animals in one way or another. For instance, when a domesticated animal approaches the mules breeding/ birthing area, automatically will be infected,” he said, explaining further that: “It is because the area produces harmful bacteria to domesticated animals, with the infected ones spreading the disease to others in a very short time.” “As a result, one can find a number of the domesticated animals die at a time. There are some livestock diseases that can even infect humans when consuming the infected animal meat. Vaccination therefore is for both humans and animals protection,” said Bajuta. NCAA Conservation Commissioner Dr Freddy Manongi reiterated that the authority was seriously set to improve the community’s livelihoods, including provision of sponsorships to school children. Illiteracy level is 64.7 per cent for community members, a situation that pushed the authority to engage in, among other thing, support improvements of school infrastructure, mostly construction of classrooms. It has been also providing school transport after many children found skipping the school in fear of wild animals on the way to and from school. The authority offers the sponsorship not only for fighting illiteracy but also encouraging depopulation in the conservation since the available data shows an increase in human number from 8,000 in 1959 to 100,000 people currently. “Those who get educated will automatically switch out of the conservation, serving in public and private institutions or engaging in self-employment,” he said.