THE Bank of Africa Tanzania is committed to support the development of the country and contribution in promoting financial inclusion especially as the nation enters the middle income economy. This was unveiled in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday when the new Chairman of the Board of Directors for Bank of Africa Tanzania Dr Nyamajeje Weggoro began his mission with the bank by visiting two of the bank’s largest branches to understand the operations. The two branches visited included the Business Centre at Oysterbay which is the bank’s Enterprise branch, a one stop centre for all the corporate sells and a large retail branch at Victoria Dar es Salaam. The Doctor’s visit came after his meeting with the staff and management of the bank at the bank’s head office in Dar es Salaam where various issues on the bank’s operations were discussed. The bank has proven to be stable in the investment made in Tanzania as it participates in various development projects since 2007. Together with the bank’s participation in the various development projects, the bank has shown its determination in supporting the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) by providing tailor-made products and services together with stream lined services which has been the major attraction of customers to the bank. As a commercial bank, the bank client segment involves Retail customers, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and corporate customers. Prior to joining Bank of Africa Tanzania Limited, Dr Weggoro was appointed as the Executive Director for the East African Constituency of the African Development Bank in 2016 to 2019 working diligently in representing the interest of eight countries in Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Eritrea, Seychelles, and South Sudan. Dr Weggoro was also appointed as the Personal Assistant and Advisor to the President of the United Republic of Tanzania (Regional Integration and Economic Affairs), 2013-2016. Dr Weggoro now joins the team to support its development plans and strategies so as to lead the bank to higher levels. He brings to the bank invaluable experience, knowledge and a unique skills set. His core areas of competence are in leadership development, economics, finance, planning and general management, industrial engineering, project planning and capacity building. In many ways Dr Weggoro has been responsible for the transformation of various African countries through the development plans in the countries he represented.