THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Manyara Region, in collaboration with the Police Force, have taken to court a School Head Teacher, Oscar Waluye for allegedly committing fraud in Standard Seven National Examinations held in October last year. A statement issued by Manyara Region PCCB Acting Chief Bureau Alli Hajji on Thursday indicated that Mr Waluye, who was Head Teacher of Olkitikiti Primary School at Engong'ongare Village in Kiteto District, was arraigned to face the charge after being fired by his disciplinary authority. Before Resident Magistrate in Charge Joakim Mwakyolo at the Kiteto District Court, the accused person denied the charge, which is contrary to sections 23 and 24 (1) of the Tanzania Examinations Council Act. He was remanded until February 16, 2021 after failure to meet the set bail conditions. Prosecuting attorney from the Police Force Wilfred John informed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. According to the statement, PCCB's investigation in Kiteto District, Mr Waluye forced two Standard Six pupils at the school to sit the Standard Seven exams on behalf of candidates (in Standard Seven) whose ability was described as low. Mr Waluye also invited one pupil, who graduated in 2019 to reseat the exams. It is stated that such two pupils of Standard Six and one pupil who graduated in 2019 were arrested by detectives of the Bureau, while attempting two subjects- Kiswahili and Mathematics on behalf of those from Standard Seven. The statement also indicated that the pupil who was reseating the exams was using another name of a pupil who had absconded. During interrogation with PCCB officials in Kiteto District, Mr Waluye admitted to have committed the offenses on grounds that he wanted his school to appear that they were teaching well. "This act is morally wrong, because it instills unethical behaviours in children, our advice to parents, guardians and teachers is to keep children in the right way and not give up even when they are old," it read in part. However, the regional bureau chief took such opportunity to inform the public servants in Manyara Region that as from now on, after being satisfied of committing crimes and corruption, those involved would first be handed over to their disciplinary authorities. He stated that thereafter, they will be charged in accordance to the Public Services Regulations that directs they stop receiving salaries while attending trials. “By procedure, once an employee is removed from the public service, criminal prosecutions normally follow and that is what happened to the head teacher… since criminal cases have no time limit,” said Mr Hajji.