THE Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF) in collaboration with other institutions has started facilitating telemedicine services, a move that aims at improving the provision of health services in the country. UCSAF Chief Executive Officer Justina Mashiba said they had supported the Ministry of Health and Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) to have access of telemedicine services at some of the hospitals. She was speaking at the weekend when she presented a paper before the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. She said so far Morogoro Regional Referral Hospital had been connected to Muhimbili National Hospital for telemedicine access. She said the decision was a relief to a number of patients, who were supposed to travel long distances in search of health services. She added that doctors and other health service providers would be able to serve more patients easily. She said the ministry was working hard to ensure more other hospitals were connected to easy communication and thus facilitate the provision of health services. "This strategy ensures members of the public get specialised treatment from where they are without travelling long distances in search of health services," she noted. "We want members of the public and even parliamentarians to get rid of the notion that UCSAF is about telecommunications towers, no. We serve a diverse of sectors as far as access to communications is concerned especially to communities in rural and hard to reach areas," she said. She explained that they had decided to support the health sector in consideration of a shortage of specialist doctors in various areas. “We, therefore, believe connecting patients with specialist doctors will help improve the sector," she noted. Ms Mashiba said it was high time members of the public utilised technology in all sectors of the economy, health being among them, especially to those in rural and hard to reach areas. According to the UCSAF boss, a patient in Kigoma will not be forced to travel all the way to Muhimbili National Hospital, but instead he/she will be able to meet specialist doctors through the telemedicine services. Ms Mashiba also urged MPs to support and facilitate public schools with information and communications technology gadgets such as computers. For his part, Minister for Communications and Information Technology, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, said the government focus was on digital economy and that all sectors needed to move together to achieve goals. Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure Selemani Kakoso commended UCSAF for services and access of communications especially in rural areas.