THE Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) is focusing a major insurance cover in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and Small and Medium Entrepreneurs (SMEs) sectors. As the insurance industry in the country moves to play an active role in protecting individuals and properties, TIRA is seeking to see up to 10 per cent of Gross Written Premium (GWP) come from the said sectors. TIRA Corporate Communications Officer, Mr Phostine Oyuke told the ‘Daily News’ at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium exhibitions that it is high time for start-up business, SMEs, agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors tapped the opportunity to reduce risk in their businesses and grow. Speaking specifically on agriculture and livestock sectors, Mr Oyuke said despite insurance companies having been showing interest in agricultural products cover in the past five or six years, this is the right time to act. He said for five years starting this year, TIRA  is coming up with a National Agricultural and Livestock (NALI) scheme that will explicitly attract insurance companies to venture in the agricultural sector. The plan by TIRA comes to facilitate cover on agricultural and livestock products, as it gets ready to have more companies. “NALI scheme intends to tweak the role of each player in the agriculture insurance, cover agriculture and livestock as well as forestry and eventually in the year or so, it will be fully-fledged. More insurance companies have shown interest in agricultural products cover. “There are two main things – an opportunity has arisen in that SMEs, small and big farmers take insurance cover, but also tap a prospect of doing insurance business by becoming agents or brokers. In insurance cover, we move wide – from micro to macro levels, from agriculture, livestock and the government wants to see that 10 per cent of GWP come from there,” he pointed out at the exhibitions that were organised by the National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC). GWP is the total premium (direct and assumed) written by an insurer before deductions for reinsurance and ceding commissions. It includes additional and/or return premiums. Written does not imply collected, but the gross policy premium to be collected as of the issue date of the policy, regardless of the payment plan. Elaborating, Mr Oyuke noted Insurance is keen on seeing the growth of business and protects insurance policy-holders. Members of the said groups and sectors have thus been called upon to get insurance to cover their businesses, so that in case of any eventuality they are covered and compensated. “We range widely; from production point of view, storage, loss of income and profit in the sense that a start-up business may be subjected to risk, with lower earnings or not at all, and that is where insurance chips in to refund such a loss – in income or profit. “In order for these businesses to grow, insurance gives the cover and avert the proprietors from plunging into poverty,” he said. As for those willing to start as insurance agents or brokers, Mr Oyuke said they should have licences from the Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA), a fixed deposit account with 2.3m/- and a competent Insurance Officer, who should have a certificate proficiency. The plan is one of several strategies of TIRA in efforts to raise the contribution of the insurance sector to Tanzania’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).