TANZANIA tourist attractions are once again in the spotlight as the newly accredited United States Ambassador to Tanzania, Dr Donald Wright, says he is thrilled by Mkomazi National Park he toured for two days. Dr Wright was specifically exhilarated by seeing rhinoceros at a close range, thanks to Tanzania National Parks (Tanapa)’s creativity to improve viewing points in the park that extends to Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions. The diplomat predicted that Mkomazi's reputation would be at the next level in a few years to come and would have many tourists from different parts of the world. He said it was the first time for him to see rhinos at such a close range. Mkomazi National Park famously referred to as 'Home to the Rare Species' is a magnificent, 3,500 square kilometres estate in Northern Tanzania. Remote and initially inaccessible, it was established in 1951. The park finds itself in a beautiful setting with both the Pare and Usambara mountains towering above its boundaries. Depending on the weather, Mount Kilimanjaro can also be seen from the park. Dr Wright promised to sensitise people back home in the US about Mkomazi National Park and other tourist attractions in Tanzania so that they too could come to enjoy and earn the country’s foreign exchange. The envoy himself said he would be returning to Mkomazi National Park. He pledged to cooperate with Mkomazi and Tanapa generally in conflict resolution due to the fact that animals, especially elephants, were invading residential areas and destroying crops. Other areas that he said he would cooperate with Tanapa included health services, as he is a medical doctor and would like to see “all people are in perfect health”. To the south of the park, the Pare and Usambara mountains form a dramatic backdrop and to the north, Kenya's vast Tsavo National Park shares a border with Mkomazi, making common ground for migratory herds of elephant, oryx and zebra during the wet season. Together with Tsavo, it forms one of the largest and most important protected ecosystems on earth. Mkomazi derives its name from Pare-ethnic language 'Mko' and 'Mazi'. 'Mko' means a traditional tiny wooden spoon used by the Pare people for eating and 'Mazi' means water. This implies that the water in the park is hardly enough to fill up the wooden spoon.