MEMBERS of the public have been reminded to take precautions against communicable and non-communicable diseases and avoid unauthorised information circulating on social media from unauthorised sources on health issues. Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Dr Abel Makubi, said some malevolent people decided to spread fake information that intended to create fear and panic among members of the public. Dr Makubi said most of the messages circulated on social media were contrary to guidelines established by the ministry on providing information to members of the public. “Recently some people circulated misleading information regarding health matters. My call to members of the public is to ignore such information,” he noted. However, the CMO further reminded individuals to avoid issuing public health statements. Commenting on an increase in the rate of communicable diseases in society, Prof Makubi said those infections were highly bursting during November to April due to weather changes. He added that as a result of high downfall all over that period, both infectious agents (protozoa, bacteria, viruses etc) and associated vector organisms (mosquitoes, ticks, sandflies, etc) were very active. "I urge people to heed President Magufuli's statement that we should continue working, while taking precautions as recommended by health experts," he said. Moreover, Prof Makubi argued citizens to refrain from the habit of waiting for statements from authorities on important issues including the existence of communicable diseases. He asked them to protect themselves from all diseases. “It’s very disappointing behaviour, you see the snake in front of you, but you are still waiting for someone to call you to move away from the danger,” he noted. In addition, the ministry directed all public and private hospitals to stop unnecessarily increasing medical costs for commercial reasons. He said such behaviour caused more problems to patients and their relatives. Prof Makubi vowed that the ministry would take appropriate measures for any hospital that would hike medical costs beyond existing customary guidelines.