Jurgen Klopp could walk away from Liverpool in the summer of 2022 to manage his native Germany, according to a report on the front page of BILD. The 53-year-old confirmed last week that he has no plans to leave the club anytime soon despite rumours of rifts between players and claims that the German was considering his future. But that has not stopped talk in the German press about when he may call it a day at Anfield - where he has a contract until 2024 - following their rut of four straight home defeats. BILD claim that there is a 68 per cent chance that Klopp could look to take over from current Germany manager Joachim Low upon the completion of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. The outlet claims Klopp is clear in his plans that he will definitely return to Germany, and that the timing of the whole situation would allow him to leave Liverpool next summer, take six months off before taking over in early 2023. There would also be the added incentive for Klopp of Germany hosting the European Championships the following year, the second time it would be held there since the country's reunification and the third time on German territory. That scenario is considered by the report as twice as likely in comparison to him seeing out the remaining three-and-a-half-years at Anfield, which is given just a 30 per cent probability. The same outlet adds Klopp and his wife Ulla are very comfortable in Liverpool, and should the club's sporting plans match his ambitions, they claim he could stay with them for nine years in total. That would represent his longest stint at a single club in his managerial career, having spent seven years each at Borussia Dortmund and Mainz in the Bundesliga. The report also mentions a possible exit this summer for Klopp due to the 'headache' caused by coronavirus and their current position. But the fans and owners Fenway Sports Group's support of him sees the chance of him being sacked or quitting himself standing at just one per cent each. Klopp has had some outstanding success at Liverpool since taking over from Brendan Rodgers in October 2015. He won the club's first Champions League title since 2005 two years ago, beating Tottenham in the final in Madrid. He then followed that up last season by helping the club win their first league title in 30 years, but it looks increasingly unlikely that the club will defend their crown, currently sat 19 points behind leaders Manchester City and outside the Champions League places. Klopp also himself admitted that the Reds will not defend their title following their defeat to Leicester a fortnight ago, but speaking last week he insisted he does not intend to leave the club despite the club's slump in domestic form. 'Did I get the sack or did I leave by myself? I don't need a break,' said Klopp. 'Privately, we had a tough time, that was a much longer time already and we always deal with it as a family 100 per cent. 'I don't feel that I need special support in this moment but it's nice. I don't need a break. 'I am fully of energy, honestly. I see an interesting challenge. We will sort it by playing football, we will sort it together by fighting with all we have. That's the plan. Nobody has to worry about me. 'We do this for the people. I feel the responsibility so much when things don't go well.'