THE Iringa based company-Farm For the Future Tanzania (FFT) has partnered with ASAS, Kibebe Farm and the Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) to launch a new goat keeping project known as the ‘F20 Goat Milk For Nutrition and Profit’ which is part of the 3-year anniversary, that will transform 20 farmers from Masukanzi and Ikokoto villages in Kilolo District into commercial goat farmers after two years. The FFT which runs 651 hectare commercial seed maize and sunflower, also launched programme II of the ‘F20 Women for the Future’, an agronomic community empowerment project targeting 20 Young Mothers in Ilula area. The FFTF Chairman, Osmund Ueland said here over the weekend that, “A total of 44 Norwegian Landrace goats have been donated to 20 farmers who received a weeklong training on goat farming at SUA. These goats produce up to 4 litres of milk per day compared to local breeds which produce 0.5 litres per day. Considering the high nutritional value of the goat milk and its premium price in the market, this project is expected to improve health and increase incomes among farmers in the area” To ensure sustainability of the programme, each farmer will receive two milking goats, a goat shed, training on livestock keeping and extension services for two years starting in 2021 running up to 2023. This will help farmers to gain the necessary skills needed to manage goat farming as a business and sustainably maintain commercial success from 2023 onwards when ASAS will start buying the goat milk for processing. According to Ueland, the project offers the opportunity for scaling up subsistence goat farming and can be replicated and used a template across the country. Commenting on programme II of the “F20 Women For the Future”, Ueland said: “The programme holds the promise of hope to young mothers who come from low income families and those who dropped out of school due to pregnancy and other challenges stemming from poverty. These young mothers now have a second chance to fulfill their dreams.” The programme aims to educate young mothers in a diverse range of agricultural activities including horticulture, poultry keeping, business management, nutrition and women’s rights. In just three years, Farm for the Future has successfully formed strong partnerships with the government, investors and the communities leading to development of a commercial farm which serves as a beacon of best agricultural practices in the Southern Highlands of Tanzania. “Having successfully passed the two first start-up years and formed strong partnerships, now the company wants to take the next step, and are now seeking investors to build its equity and construct a dam with irrigation facilities for growing of high value crops mainly macadamia and hybrid seed maize,” said Ueland. On his part, the Iringa Regional Commissioner Dr Golyama Bahati said the projects will play a big part in improving lives, enhancing agricultural productivity and alleviating poverty among the communities in Kilolo.