KILIMANJARO is planning to abolish 100 inactive cooperative societies in an effort to strengthen the cooperative sector in the region. This was revealed by the Assistant Registrar of Co-operatives in Kilimanjaro region Mr Henjewele John, during the three-day training seminar for new co-operative leaders held in Moshi, Kilimanjaro region recently. “For example, there are 413 primary co-operative societies in Kilimanjaro region, among them, 245 are Savings and Credit Co-operative Societies (Saccos) but only 85 out of the 245 Saccos are active,” he noted. “We are planning to submit a request to the registrar of co-operatives to cancel and remove from the government register all non-active co-operative societies, so that we remain with those that are appropriate to serve the people,” he added. The Chairman of the Savings and Credit Co-operative Union League of Tanzania (SCCULT) Dr Georgas Machimu, called on the new leaders to adhere to good values ​​during their tenure in office, which he said was important in strengthening the cooperative sector. “The co-operative sector needs honest and highly qualified leaders and who have a deep knowledge of the co-operative concept; we must thank the Tanzania Co-operative Development Commission (TCDC) for organising this important training aimed at providing co-operative related education to new co-operative leaders,” he said. He also called upon the leaders and those from the management team of their respective co-operative societies to ensure that they receive additional education, which is related to the leadership and management of cooperatives, so as to strengthen the co-operatives. “Having professional leaders and managers would make the co-operative establishments strong, therefore, more education among leaders and the management staff is vital,” he said. In her presentation, the Director of Research and Training with the TCDC Ms Dorothy Kalikamo said that contributions of co-operative unions and co-operative societies in different development processes remain as key pillars in attracting new members. “Contributing to social issues in various sectors such as health, education, as well as in various infrastructures such as water and roads will obviously encourage more people to join the cooperative societies. This is because the strength of the sector will be reflected in the contributions made in the community,” she said.