THE departing Young Africans midfield maestro Haruna Niyonzima has thanked the management, members and fans for their immeasurable support given to him throughout his stay at the club. The Rwandan import midfield maestro will be given a farewell today when Yanga host Ihefu at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam, their last home match of the campaign. Speaking yesterday, Niyonzima said he is leaving the club as a happy person after both sides reached mutual agreement to go separate ways prior to the next season. “Leaving Yanga does not mean that I am retiring from football because football has been my life and it will continue to play an important part as long as I live. I will announce later which team I am going to play,” he said. He continued: “Tanzania is my home and I thank all Tanzanians for their trust and love they showed to me during my playing career. They are truly good people.” Clarifying on his switch from Yanga to Simba which made headlines, Niyonzima said the move was made in search of green pastures and not necessarily that he disliked the former. On his part, Yanga player Deus Kaseke described Niyonzima as a brother and leader who rendered his services at the club with passion. “He was a very important asset in the team and outside the pitch, he is able to share with you life experiences which becomes useful to hear them from him. “To us players, he was a brother and leader on the battlefield and if a person has such qualities, you definitely miss him. We will miss him a lot,” said Deus Kaseke. He added that on the field, Niyonzima had the power to unite his fellow players to play as a team a thing he said they will miss him dearly for that. Kaseke then picked the superb goal scored by Niyonzima during last season’s Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) match against Gwambina as his best goal from the Rwandan talented player. The Rwandan talented player is leaving behind a great legacy in the Premier League after playing for the two biggest clubs in the country Yanga and Simba at different occasions. However, this season, he experienced big challenge from his teammates hence he was sidelined in many competitive matches thereby giving away his position in the team.