FRENCH companies have expressed satisfaction with the steps being taken by the sixth phase government to improve business and investment environment, pledging close cooperation with Tanzania in implementing flagship projects. The companies through French Business Confederation (MEDEF) are expected to visit Tanzania before the end of this year to explore investment opportunities in the country. The development came after Vice President Dr Philip Mpango held talks with French Business Confederation in Paris, where he invited investors from the European nation to come and invest in Tanzania, especially in the country’s priority sectors, including construction of infrastructures, agriculture, education, health and tourism. Some of the multinational companies which attended the talks, included Total Energies and Airbus which have already invested in various areas in Tanzania. The VP was in Paris to represent President Samia Suluhu Hassan in the Generation Equality Forum which brought together Heads of State and Government, international organizations, but also representatives of civil society, young people and the private sector. The Forum aimed at shaping gender equality rights as agreed during the Beijing Conference in 1995. Dr Mpango informed the French business community that the sixth phase government under President Samia is taking various steps to improve investment climate and participation of the private sector in the country’s economy. He said that some of the measures being taken by the government to woo investors include construction of modern infrastructure such as Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Julius Nyerere Hydroelectric Power Project (JNHPP), water projects and improvement of road infrastructure and air transport. In April, President Samia ordered sweeping reforms in the investment sector, as part of the government’s grand plan to restore investors’ trust in the country. She said it was crucial for the country through the Investment Ministry to ensure the country regains the investors’ trust by improving the climate that forces some of them to shift their business to other countries. Meanwhile, Dr Mpango has informed the Generation Equality Forum that Tanzania is taking important steps to promote and safeguard women’s economic rights. He named some of the steps as increasing the number of daycare centres in business areas such as markets and other workplaces “The government is taking measures to increase access to important social services such as electricity, water, and renewable energy in order to reduce domestic workload on women in rural and urban areas,” he said. He further said that the government will also increase access to simple technology in order to increase efficiency in activities being done by women, especially in production activities. “Other steps being taken include increasing education opportunities to women, including establishment of girls’ science secondary schools, and technical education to impart them with skills that will increase production efficiency,” he said. He said that the government has also worked to ensure that women can afford and use digital technology to enhance competition in their businesses. “Women have also been empowered so that they can use various financial opportunities by being creative as well as changing their mindset about various traditions which bar women from engaging in economic activities such as land ownership,” he said. He further said that the government has also strengthened women economic empowerment fund to enable them have access to capital for establishing various businesses. Shortly after attending the forum, Dr Mpango also met and held talks with United Nations Under-SecretaryGeneral and Executive Director of UN Women, Phumzile Mlambo Ngcuka. Ms Ngcuka commended the steps being taken by the Tanzanian government to promote and safeguard women’s economic rights The VP assured Dr Phumzile that Tanzania will continue to safeguard women’s economic rights.