THE Public Service Commission has issued ruling on 107 appeals and eight complaints lodged by public servants to challenge decisions made by their authorities at workplaces. Commission head of communication department Richard Cheyo revealed this when speaking to reporters after the Commission concluded its fourth and final meeting for the financial year 2020/2021. Elaborating, Mr Cheyo said the Commission scrutinized a total of 107 appeals out of which 76 were rejected by retaining previous decisions by employers. Nine appeals were unconditionally granted and 12 appeals were conditionally granted to be re-established in accordance with existing laws, regulations, procedures and guidelines. “Ten appeals were dismissed by the Commission because they were lodged beyond time set as stipulated in public services rules and regulations. The Commission also received and resolved eight complaints, of which three were rejected while five of them were accepted and given unconditional grant,” he said. He cited some of the commonly public services offenses that led to some employees facing disciplinary actions as being absent for more than five days without permission from employer or without clear reasons. Other offences included employees going for further study without employer’s permission, giving false information to the employer, being employed in the public service without proper qualifications as well as submitting forged academic certificates or failing to submit the certificate at all. Similarly, dishonesty, embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds as well as gross negligence and failure to perform duties were some of other offenses, Mr Cheyo said. Cheyo said in the past two fiscal years of 2019/2020 and 2020/2021 the Commission has gone through a total of 626 public servants appeals of which 219 were granted, 227 rejected and 180 disqualified as they were presented out of specified time. “In the past two year fiscal period 153, appellants challenged the commission’s decision to the President, the results of the appeals show that so far 59 appeals have been decided and 52 of them have agreed to the commission’s decision and seven have rejected by reversing the commission’s decision. In addition, 94 appeals have not yet been decided on, “he said. In the same instance, Mr. Cheyo said that the commission noted delays in the appeal and complaint forms, delays or non-submission of public service status reports. He said the Commission also noted the existence of violations of laws, regulations, procedures and guidelines among public servants and some employers that some disciplinary authorities failed to take timely action against their subordinates with unsatisfactory performance. Mr Cheyo also highlighted that there were short comings in the preparation of charges and the conduct of the entire disciplinary process by some disciplinary authorities. Other violations include filing disciplinary proceedings and holding them for a long time without finalizing them for next action among some employers and employing authorities and some appellants and complainants not attaching the exhibits for evidence.