CHAMPIONS elect Simba face relegation threatened Coastal Union in the only weekend Premier League fixture at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. A win will award Simba unassailable 79 points at the helm of the league table which cannot be reached by any other team in the contest thereby officially declaring them the season’s new champs. After today’s meeting, Simba will visit third-placed Azam on July 14th in a pick of the day match to be played at Azam Complex before hosting Namungo at Benjamin Mkapa venue on July 18th which will be their last game of the season. The Msimbazi Street Reds have been among the best performing teams in the campaign no wonder they have succeed to retain the title for the fourth time in a row hence they deserve to be congratulated. It will be the 32nd match for Simba this season who have already put in their bag 76 points from their 30 games played of which they have scored 71 goals more than any other side and conceded 13 goals less than any other team on the ladder. This clearly indicates that they have had a good defensive display in the unfolding campaign and at the same time, the Reds have had a sharp goal poaching department which was not shy at the goal mouth. On the other hand, a loss by Coastal Union will see themselves very close to relegation pit as they are not comfortable as far as the standings are concerned. Placed 17th on the log with 34 points from 31 duels, the Tangabased outfits need miracles to be set free from the jaws of relegation and the best way to achieve that is for them to win all their remaining three matches beginning with today’s game. They have since joined Ihefu, Gwambina and Mwadui in a package of four teams currently occupying the red zone at the bottom of the 18-team league. Ihefu, who have 35 points from 32 clashes, have a difficult test to pass on July 14th when they play Young Africans at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city in a match they curiously need to win to revamp their hopes of featuring in the contest next season. If they fail to save themselves, it will be a negative thing for them bearing in mind that they just got promoted this season hence they hardly enjoyed how good it is to parade in the top flight league. After Yanga, the Mbarali based club will stay put in the city to take on KMC at Uhuru Stadium in their last fixture of the season on July 18th. Also, Gwambina who sit on 16th slot on the table with 34 points have a nerve-wracking encounter versus Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya on July 14th before heading to play against Tanzania Prisons on July 18th.