THE Chief Justice, Prof Ibrahim Juma, has endorsed the request of the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) for all lawyers admitted as new members of the bar should take oath of faithfulness. TLS President, Dr Edward Hosea made the request to the Chief Justice at the 64thceremony to welcome and admit new advocates held at Karimjee grounds in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. “The oath of allegiance is a procedure that applies even when other leaders are sworn in, so I have no objection. There is a need to remind each other of the importance of ethics in the delivery of justice,” CJ is quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Judiciary's Information and Communication Unit. A total of 308 new Independent Advocates were admitted, a move that increased the number of members of the bar in the country to 10,436. Among the lawyers, who were admitted at the ceremony were Court of Appeal Justice Augustine Mwarija and eight magistrates. During the session, Prof Juma pointed out that the TLS was a key player in the implementation of the five-year Strategic Plan of the Judiciary of Tanzania as the success of such a Pillar of State was due to the significant contribution made by the Bar Association. For his part, the President of TLS commended the Judiciary of Tanzania for the use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) as well as providing various guidelines that facilitates access to justice in the country. Dr Hosea pointed out that the guidelines provided by the Court have helped to facilitate access to justice, citing the Sentencing Manual as well as the issue of bail. “The Tanganyika Law Society will continue the good relations that exist between the Bar Association and the Tanzanian Judiciary with the aim of improving justice delivery activities in the country and ensuring citizens get justice in a timely manner,” he said. In another development, Prof Juma has urged lawyers to create a habit of studying various subjects in order to identify legal employment opportunities available in the country, as one way of dealing with technological change. He told the new advocates at the admission ceremony that the 21stcentury is competitive, thus, the lawyers must learn to adapt to such an environment. "The 21st century requires people with additional skills, competencies and qualifications, without relying more on certificates. Therefore, it is your responsibility to learn how Tanzania is and to study the National Development Vision 2025,” he said. Prof Juma urged the new Advocates to make good use of the education, knowledge and skills they have acquired from the 20th century curriculum content to study, expand and acquire the required skills in the 21st Century. “In the interview, I found that you had a great understanding of the legal areas you studied in college. But you have little understanding of Tanzania's direction and your role in that country's direction,” the Chief Justice explained. Similarly, Prof Juma Justice reminded the lawyers to have good communication skills, with high quality knowledge of communication languages including Kiswahili and English as it is well known that these are now internationally recognized languages. He said that the Advocates Act, Chapter 341 and the law establishing the bar association, the Tanganyika Law Society Act, Chapter 307, were enacted in 1954 and both came into operation on January 1, 1955, about 66 years ago. “These laws carry the objectives, content and the requirements of the 20thcentury. It is your responsibility as lawyers to ensure that in the implementation, these laws are in line with the goals of the 21st Century as well as the competition of the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” he stressed. The admission ceremony was attended by the Principal Judge of the High Court of Tanzania, some of the Judges of the High Court of Tanzania, the Deputy Attorney General, the President of TLS and some other