PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi has demanded written explanations from leaders and executives who were absent during his tour of South Unguja Region. Dr Mwinyi expressed unhappiness with leaders and executives who failed to turn up for his tour, saying they were supposed to be present to provide answers to challenges raised by citizens in different areas. “While on my tour in the South Unguja, I discovered that some of the executives, who were supposed to accompany me, were absent. I direct all who were supposed to come with me to explain in writing by next Monday why they were absent,” Dr Mwinyi said at a gathering to wind-up his tour in South Unguja Region. Shortage or lack of water, land crisis and roads in poor conditions were some of the challenges the president heard from wananchi during his tour. The Isles leader promised to solve them. President Mwinyi also directed leaders in their respective areas to address challenges facing the people, instead of waiting for intervention from top government leaders. He said that it was unfortunate that some executives in the government were still sluggish in taking action. He warned against the 'business as usual' habit, insisting that it has no place in the eighth phase government of 'speed, standard, and bright future for Zanzibaris.' Meanwhile, Dr Mwinyi has said that the government is aware of the existence of a land dispute involving the local people and the Tanzania People's Defence Forces (TPDF) - Ubago barracks in Ubago village, Unguja Central, and that the problem will be solved peacefully. During his work tour in the area, where he spoke to the residents of Ubago, Dunga and Binguni Shehias (lowest administrative areas), Mwinyi listened to various challenges facing people, including delays in completing projects and land conflicts. He said the government has already set up a special commission to investigate the crisis, and said that once the investigation is complete; its reports will be submitted to the government for further steps to provide a lasting solution to the land crisis. Dr Mwinyi told the enthusiastic gathering that the country's Defence Forces are important in national security, so he urged the people to understand that open spaces close to the barracks are important because of the military exercises. He stressed the need for citizens to stay away from areas meant for the forces. Speaking to farmers at the Cheju Rice farm, the president said the irrigation scheme project will be completed by April 2022 and bring greater productivity for farmers. During the tour, the Minister for Agriculture, Irrigation, Natural Resources and Livestock Mr Soud Nahodha said the completion of the project in the Cheju area, will increase rice production in the Isles. On his side, the Minister for Infrastructure, Communications, and Transport Ms Rahma Kassim Ali said in the current financial year 2021/2022, the government has planned to improve at least 220 kilometres of feeder roads.