IN ensuring music artistes in the country benefit from their works, a music streaming company Boomplay has continued to appreciate the contribution of these artistes by organising an award for artists who have been outstanding recently. This was revealed by the Boomplay Tanzania General Manager, Natasha Stambuli that at least nine Tanzanian artistes will be awarded this week for reaching milestones on Boomplay through the company’s annual recognition scheme dubbed ‘Boomplay Awards’. In its second year, the award seeks to recognise and appreciate artistes who have achieved significant milestones with their music streaming numbers in the past year. “Artists like Diamond Platnumz, Alikiba, Harmonize, Rayvanny, Nandy, Mbosso, Zuchu Aslay and Darassa have surpassed certain thresholds on our music service, and we are elated to recognize and award them. She proceeded, “In addition to other support that we offer to the artistes is a continuous demonstration of our aim to help the music ecosystem unlock its full potential.” “As the leading music streaming and download service in Africa, Boomplay is at the forefront of recognising artistes who are making waves in their respective fields, and we look forward to more artists achieving equally great milestones,” she stated. Stambuli added that the criteria used for selection are the number of streams artistes accrued on their tracks, albums and overall streams from November 2020 to May 2021. Other than Boomplay issuing its support to youths, the government has been working hard to make sure the music industry witnesses revolution. Among the initiative included the plans that the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports and the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology agreed to implement when they met last weekend. The purpose of the session was to look at how artistes would benefit from their works played in media outlets, where they discussed ways of implementing the royalty calculation for artists. This move comes after President Samia Suluhu Hassan noted that artistes would begin being paid royalties for their works played on television, radio or online from December this year. “Among the steps taken to strengthen the sports and arts sector is through strengthening protection of artists’ intellectual property rights and in that, I want to inform youth that from December this year, artists will begin being paid royalties for their works played on television, radio or online,” she said. President Samia made these directives last month when addressing youth at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza Region. Thus, The Minister for Sports Innocent Bashungwa and the Minister for Communications and Information Technology Faustine Ndugulile chaired the joint session. They had the chance to discuss how the Ministries will implement royalties for music artists’ work in various media outlets.