ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi's seven-day tour of Unguja ended yesterday, costing at least seven directors of their jobs. President Mwinyi further issued a six-month ultimatum to the newly appointed Zanzibar Water Authorities (ZAWA) and Zanzibar Electricity Corporation (ZECO) executive directors to address water and power woes, respectively, in the country or risk their jobs as well. "I will never stop taking stern measures against people who just occupy public offices but doing nothing," charged Dr Mwinyi as he wound up his tour of Urban West region at Idrissa Abdul-Wakil hall here on Saturday. President Mwinyi ordered an immediate suspension of two directors in the ministry of health, social welfare, elders, gender and children, saying; "I'm not satisfied with the performance of the ministry; the directors are merely sitting in offices." The presidential axe fell on the Director of Prevention and Public Awareness Dr Fadhil Mohammed Abdulla and Director of Services and Operations Ramadhan Khamis Juma, with the newly appointed Director General, Dr Abdullah Suleiman Ali given a grace period. Dr Mwinyi as well fired West B Municipal Council Executive Director Ali Abdalla Natepe, North B Town Council Executive Director Makame Mwadini Silima, Central Town Council Director Muhamed Salum Muhamed and South District Executive Director Kassim Mtoro Abu, accusing them of failure to keep the environment clean and invest adequately in development projects. He also dismissed Small and Medium Industry Development Agency (SMIDA) Executive Director Haji Abdulhamid over failure to support small entrepreneurs. "We promised to support small entrepreneurs in terms of skills, capital and markets but unfortunately out of the 1bn/- budget, SMIDA has supported only 27 people...this is pure shame; SMIDA executive director should go," fumed the president. He censured the underperformance of the city and municipal councils, saying: "None of the municipal council has impressed me. Imagine people collecting 700m/- and investing only 9m/-, which is less than two per cent, in development projects." The disorderly city also seemed to annoy the president. "There is nowhere that is clean in Zanzibar...we had the ZUSP (Zanzibar Urban Services Project) to beautify the city; but where have we beatified," queried the president, demanding explanation over the 840m/-, which the city spends on cleanness. The president decried shoddy contracts in the municipal councils, questioning the rationale of hiring the services of collecting tower levies. "Do we really need a third party to collect the tower levy at an exorbitant fee of 40 per cent of the collected revenues; these are purely thievery contracts," he charged. President Mwinyi said most of the social and economic problems—especially water and power related—that haunt Zanzibaris were the product of incompetent and dishonest public servants. He ordered the police and Zanzibar Anti-Corruption and Economic Crime Authority (ZAECA) to trace, arrest and bring to justice all people behind the procurement of defective water pumps, which have failed the multibillion water projects in the islands. "We face water problems because there are people sabotaging us," charged the president, expressing optimism on the newly appointed ZAWA Executive Director Engineer Salha Mohammed Kassim, "From her articulate plans, you see that she knows what she wants to do." The president warned ZECO against charging customers for the power poles, saying no Zanzibari can afford. "Even the 200,000/- service charge remains exorbitant to majority wananchi...people cannot buy electricity poles, this is ZECO's responsibility," he directed. President Mwinyi further decried sexual abuse, abusive drugs and corruption, directing the police, ZAECA and all wananchi to intensify the war against the vices. "The war against these vices requires the support of us all ...nobody of us can successfully fight in isolation; I beg your support," he said. Meanwhile, President Mwinyi appointed three permanent secretaries and two deputy permanent secretaries. The newly appointed permanent secretaries with their portfolio in brackets are Mussa Haji Ali (President's Office, State House), Habiba Hassan Omar (President's Office, Labour, Economy and Investment) and Issa Mahfoudh Haji (President's Office, Regional Administration, Local Government and Special Departments). The deputies are Aboud Hassan Mwinyi (President's Office, Finance and Planning) and Mikidadi Mbarouk Mzee (President's Office, Regional Administration).  