LAST Saturday Zanzibar President Dr Hussein Mwinyi fired a total of seven directors on grounds of failure to discharge their responsibilities to the required standard. The decision to fire the leaders came after President Mwinyi made a seven-day tour of Unguja region during which he issued a six-month ultimatum to the newly appointed Zanzibar Water Authorities (ZAWA) and Zanzibar Electricity Corporation (ZECO) executive directors to address water and power woes, respectively, or risk their jobs as well. He did not end there as he also dismissed Small and Medium Industry Development Agency (SMIDA) Executive Director over failure to support small entrepreneurs. The Zanzibar Head of State further ordered an immediate suspension of two directors in the Zanzibar Ministry of Health, Social Welfare, Elders, Gender and Children. Announcing his decision to fire and suspend the leader President Mwinyi said he will never stop taking stern measures against people who just occupy public offices but doing nothing. In recent years, Tanzania top leaders have developed a no no-sense attitude towards lazy and underperforming officials. It will be recalled that during the fifth phase government the late President John Magufuli fired several officials for underperformance. When President Samia Suluhu Hassan took over the reins of the government she underscored the need for government officials to deliver to the expectations of the public, warning that underperformance will cost their jobs. In her various speeches delivered in various occasions, President Samia has always been calling on nominated leaders and other government officials to adhere to the laws, rules and regulations when discharging their responsibilities, cautioning that going against the leadership code of ethics will also put their jobs at risk. Already we have seen President Samia’s axe falling on some officials, signaling that she, too, does not tolerate nonsense. Nominated and other government leaders must take note that gone are the days when no action was taken against them whenever they erred, underperformed or violated leadership ethics. Perhaps it is quite important to remind them that their survival in leadership posts they are serving will only depend on their best performance. No more no less. President Mwinyi’s axe that fell on seven directors in Zanzibar should serve as a wakeup call to union leaders as well. President Samia is watching their performance very closely.