The 2.3bn/- Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) Covid-19 relief fund is set to transform the operations of bars and eateries in the country. The two-year project dubbed 'Raise the Bar' or 'Tunyanyuke Pamoja' will support on-trade in several ways, from training the outlet owners and staff against communicable diseases to providing technical equipment to transforming their outlets. The project will cover 2,000 outlets. These outlets will be categorized depending on their size, which will determine the level of support. The SBL Managing Director Mark Ocitti said recently that SBL’s commitment comes at an ideal time when the world is making efforts to revive businesses from the impacts of the pandemic. "Our strategy is to support the government's efforts in calling on people and businesses to practice better hygiene standards to prevent all communicable diseases," he said. Through this project, bars and pubs in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mwanza and Zanzibar will benefit from the project to protect their staff and customers from communicable diseases, including the Covid-19 pandemic. With the advent of Covid-19, socialization has been slowed down. The uncertainty of possible infection through contact has led some people to opt for a 'stay-at-home' (or work-from-home) policy, and 'self-isolation’-which have had a considerable impact on bar visits and, ultimately, alcohol consumption. The 'Raise the Bar' program was designed following a survey done by SBL's mother company Diageo to bar owners to identify key priorities to support reopening. Their top priorities included, among others, valuable equipment to transform their service areas for adequate social distancing, hygienic measures and digital support. "Our bars and eateries constitute a critical part of our hospitality and service industry with their universe employing over thousands of people and benefitting many more indirectly,” he said. Kelvin Tegwa, invited at the launch event as representative of beer distributors and bar owners, said the initiative would support customers' confidence and visit bars for food and drinks without fear. “Bars and alcohol businesses, in general, have been affected by the pandemic, and we have experienced a dwindling number of customers due to fear to contract the virus. With support from SBL customers, will restore, and we hope to rise again," He said