PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has assured her Burundian counterpart, Evariste Ndaishimiye of Tanzania’s commitment to promote and strengthen the existing bilateral ties. She made the remarks in a message delivered on her behalf by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who represented the Head of State in an event to mark 59 years of Independence of Burundi held on Thursday in Bujumbura. In her message, the Head of State also commended the Republic of Burundi on marking 59 years of its independence; and the efforts President Ndaishimiye is taking to build and improve peace, democracy and the economy. “She also asked Burundians to continue maintaining national peace, unity and harmony,” read part of the statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. Tanzania and Burundi relations were established a long time ago during the leadership of the former Heads of State, the late Julius Kambarage Nyerere of Tanzania and Prince Louis Rwagasore of Burundi. Burundi is a strategic partner of Tanzania in many areas, particularly trade, since Burundi is a landlocked country. Available statistics shows that trade volume for 2019 between Tanzania and Burundi was 201bn/-, up from 115.15bn/- recorded in 2016, and that at least 95 per cent of Burundian cargo is imported and exported through the Dar es Salaam port. Equally, Tanzania has also been a strategic partner in mediating political tensions. For his part, President Ndaishimiye asked Burundians to continue supporting the government for the sake of bringing national development and improving the lives of individuals. He acknowledged the prevailing peace and stability in his country, asking Burundians to maintain it since it was key to development. In another development, Premier Majaliwa asked Tanzanians and Burundians to work hard and avoid corruption practices to enable the two countries attain development goals. He said since the two countries are on a serious mission of building their economies, then it was crucial for everyone in their areas of expertise to work hard for national development. He made the statement when he visited the Burundi’s Fertilizers Organo-Minerals Industries (FOMI) factory in Bunjumbura, commending President Ndaishimiye for his ongoing efforts to build the economy of his country. “I have been impressed with the efforts that President Ndaishimiye is taking for this country, we all see that Burundi is moving at a reasonable pace,” he said. The Premier also invited Burundian investors to establish fertilizer manufacturing plants in Tanzania since the country is in need of 700,000 tons of fertilizers per year. He said Tanzania has put in place conducive business and investment climates based on the available supporting infrastructures, such as reliable power supply and enough land. “Burundians and Tanzanians are close neighbors, both geographically and spiritually, and over the years both our peoples have developed a common understanding, as well as sharing the same vision and destiny. This shared cultural and social knowledge is critical for successful businesses,” said the Prime Minister. On March 5 this year, the two countries resolved to strengthen cooperation on strategic areas, including economic infrastructure to ease transportation of people and their goods. In a joint communiqué signed by the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi and his Burundian counterpart, Ambassador Albert Shingiro, the countries agreed to collaborate in developing economic infrastructure, including ports, railways, aviation and marine transport in order to facilitate trade, including movement of goods, services and people. The resolutions were reached at the Sixth Joint Permanent Commission (JPC) meeting between Tanzania and Burundi held in Kigoma Region. Prof Kabudi said that the resolutions are aimed at strengthening economic cooperation between the two countries.