PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan announced on Monday her government will submit a national response strategy on Covid-19 to the European Union seeking the Belgium-based coalition support. The support remains unclear on whether it will involve both response and preparedness towards Covid-19 as well as future pandemics, but the president said Tanzania “will present its requirements.” She said during her meeting with the EU Council President, Charles Michael, that Tanzania has so far registered for the COVAX facility and that it has a national plan that outlines the country’s necessities. EU, however, said it was ready to support Tanzania towards its plan to establish a vaccination plant. “EU is ready to support Tanzania,” Michael said thanking President Samia for her efforts to respond to the Covid-19. Already the EU is supporting some African countries to build their local vaccine production line. He assured the president that the EU will continue to maintain bilateral ties with Tanzania. So far Tanzania has confirmed 408 new cases of coronavirus including 284 critical patients. There are no officially recorded deaths.  In a statement released by the Directorate of Presidential Communications on Monday, President Samia elaborated to the EU Council President that her country was equally working on improving the investment environment for the private sector. “The aim is to facilitate implementation of the third—Five Year Development Plan (FYDP III),” President Samia said assuring Michael that her administration will monitor and strengthen democracy, good governance, and basic fundamental human rights. Tanzania is one of the largest recipients of the European Union (EU) aid. In the last three months of President Samia’s administration, Tanzania has signed an agreement worth over a 111.5million Euros. The funds were channeled to improve renewable energy, agriculture, and trade. It also received about a 50million Euros from the EU investment bank to support the construction and renovation of regional airports.