THE Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) have begun implementing a program aimed at providing business formalization training to business officials in all councils in the country. BRELA has started training first-hand business officials at district level to facilitate the delivery of services to citizens from the grassroots level and has already reached the districts in six regions. This was said yesterday by BRELA Director, Andrew Mkapa at the ongoing 45th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DIFT) at Sabasaba grounds. Mkapa said the agency under the Ministry of Industry and Trade will implement the initiative in partnership with the councils and plans to reach out the citizens across the country to enable them to formalize their businesses. He said in addition to the training of the business district officials so that they can reach people at the grassroots level, BRELA also provides online registration services so as to enable other people to register their business online without visiting the offices. “We have started a training program to business officers in all councils so that they can understand how BRELA works so as to further assist rural businesses Mkapa said, adding that all services  provided  by the agency are also accessible online  but if people  face any difficulties  they can  visit  our offices." He said so far BRELA has covered districts of six regions noting that the program is sustainable and is been conducted in phases. We have already covered, Lindi , Mtwara, Ruvuma and Central Zone. Mkapa said the aim was to reach out to all 185 councils in the country and ensure that small, medium and large scale businesses have access to the services and their businesses are formalized. He said the government has forged strong partnership with the private sector in developing the economy and businesses and stressed that it was one of their responsibilities to ensure that businesses are sustainable. Mkapa said BRELA has been participating the trade fair for the fifth time after the government ordered all public institutions to take part in the international trade fair. He said BRELA has recorded great success as many people visited their pavilion and sought advice to register their businesses. He also said that they also give them the opportunity to provide services to citizens and explain the activities they do considering that many people do not get the opportunity to go to their offices.  “So citizen’s apart from visiting exhibitions to see the various products produced locally and abroad also get the opportunity to visit the BRELA pavilion to learn and be served.