MANUFACTURERS, importers and distributors of plastic packaging materials and alternative bags have been urged to comply with quality standard requirements to avoid introducing low quality goods into the local market. Equally, they were told to abide by laws and regulations guiding the production and importation of the materials. The call was made by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) Lake Zone Manager, Joseph Ismail during the training on quality standards requirements on plastic packaging materials and alternative materials as well as laws and regulations to be followed in producing and importing them. “We have brought together manufacturers, importers and distributors of plastic packaging and alternative materials to discuss on how they can best comply with the requirements and abide by rules and regulations to protect environment and consumers,” he said. Lack of knowledge on quality standards requirements in producing such goods and also on laws and regulations guiding their importation is detrimental to environment and also affects consumers’ health. On his part, TBS quality officer, Johnson Kiwia said some dishonest importers have started importing alternative bags of poor quality into the market, thus raising serious complaints from users. “The reality is that not any individual can undertake this business. Users depend much on distributors who should provide them with the knowledge on quality goods to purchase,” he noted. He added that importers have started importing lighter alternative bags which are below the grams per square meter (GSM) 70 as per quality requirements, thus giving consumers low quality goods that do not conform to the value for money. The great thing about good quality 70 GSM paper is that it has been made with superior wood fibre. One of the stakeholders, Kurwijila Athumani said through the training they have understood laws and regulations needed before producing, importing and distributing packaging goods allowed into the market. The TBS Marketing Officer, Rhoda Mayugu promised to forward their views on various challenges encountered to Bureau to improve their business.