The world, they say, is distracted, and will always be distracted, but, are you going to be distracted, or are you going to be different from this distracted world? Words of wisdom always advise us to avoid being distracted by this world we are living in, because being busy does not always mean real work. You can be very busy pushing around your family members because you want them to see that you are different from them. But the object of all work is production or accomplishment. You may also be busy on your laptop so that your colleagues can believe that you are very busy, while in real sense you are busy doing nothing, but at the end of the day, your output should speak volumes. As a female journalist you have to challenge yourself to ensure that you possess selfdetermination, know your purpose and unlock your full potential to be able to deliver the best to the society. Female journalists as purpose driven individuals who need to develop integrity to gain dignity and courage when taking charge of their destinies. Women journalists have been described as highly capable but not given top positions in the media to be able to participate in decision-making which can help other new female journalists. The limitation position of women in the media has been cited as one of the factors undermining efforts to enhance the capacity of women journalists and their potential. Veni Swai, the Interim Project Director – East Africa from Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom (FNF) recently said that after coming across these challenges, it prompted FNF to train female journalists to help them understand and feel confident and know that they are as capable as men. Swai says FNF have seen the importance of training women journalists to increase their ability to participate and acquire higher positions in the media as well as to raise others. FNF aims to lift women and society as a whole from oppression and self-awareness. She says that the foundation saw the importance of every person being empowered to develop her talents by getting an education for their own benefit and the benefit of the whole nation. Ms Veni notes that the reason why they started working with journalists is because they realized that if they want to make the right decision, it is good to have accurate and reliable information. “We found that in order to get the right information, we have to work with the media. When we worked with the editor we found that a few women participated in a course that provided a platform for journalists to talk about various issues that have befallen them, including loss of jobs due to the outbreak of coronavirus. According to Swai, the Women in Media workshop which took place in Nairobi Kenya recently is the second to be held by FNF and aims to showcase the talents of female journalists to enable them become more self-aware and achieve their goals. As with other NGOs focusing on the fact that women journalists are valued in their sector, FNF has started a program to engage and empower women journalists since last year 2020, though they have been around for a long time. “This is the second workshop after the first one which was held virtually in June last year due to the outbreak of the virus. Though it was conducted online, it was good and I believe this year’s workshop will add value and build a lot of potential for them,” said Swai The trainer of the two workshops, Njeri Kabeberi said it was important for women journalists to change their work ethic by setting goals and seeking greater opportunities within the media, so that their potential can be seen. She urged female journalists to abandon shallow stories and instead focus on deep work in order to uncover hidden information for community development "I would like to urge women journalists to increase their efforts in fighting for opportunities to focus on their work, including setting their personal goals instead of focusing solely on the company goals which they are supposed to achieve together," she said. She insists reporters should follow the ethics of journalism in order to differentiate themselves from those who have not studied journalism. “Nowadays everyone is a journalist, because when they come across events, even if they are unethical, proceed to take pictures and post them on social media for public consumption. Therefore, a professional journalist must differentiate themselves from those who go into deep work and give out shallow work,” says Njeri. Njeri says a female journalist should plan her schedule with confidence so that she will not fail to do anything even if she encounters obstacles. The journalist must be self-aware, confident, planning her work and reviewing it. Chairperson of Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA), Joyce Shebe who is also a beneficiary of the FNF workshop wants women to be confident, and when any opportunity arises, they should not hesitate but rather go forward and grab it. She reminded women journalists to fight for recognition of their work and to look for opportunities. Serfine Achieng from Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) says for a long time women have been discouraged from taking part in the struggle for leadership and position by being restricted or afraid to dare, which has been holding them back.