Eid Mubarak and congratulations to all of you who have successfully completed the fasting, as required during the just ended holy month of Ramadhan. Some of you may now be embarking on the “six”. Once again, congratulations! There are many of us who expected the Idd festivities to be on Thursday and Friday. That was not to be. A colourful photograph carried on page 4 of the Custodian of Thursday 13 May, had a caption which stated the caveat with regard to public holidays such as Idd el Fitr. It reads: “Dar es Salaam residents make eleventh hour shopping along Kongo Street in Kariakoo towards Eid el Fitr festive season expected today or tomorrow ‘depending the sighting of the moon’”. Is it: “depending the sighting of the moon?” No. A preposition, “on”, is missing. It should therefore be: “depending ON the sighting of the moon”. The moon was not sighted Wednesday, so the festivities had to wait till Friday. The Thursday papers were dominated by news about congestion at the Port of Dar es Salaam. This is reflected in this front page headline: “End Dar port chaos now, Government directs agencies” (Good Citizen 13 May). This was after Parliament had passionately debated the snail speed movement of cargo at Dar Port, prompting the Prime minister to make an unscheduled visit to the port to ascertain what was going on. Some MPs accused port of management of laxity, lack of patriotism and sabotage. The Good Citizen quoted one of the MPs reflecting on the loss his constituency was suffering as a result of the cargo trucks not moving out of the Port: “For his part, Nkenge Constituency (Kagera Region) MP, FK, said his constituency was significantly affected by absence of trucks passing through the area, saying they directly contribute to the economy by sleeping in guest houses located in the area as well as purchasing goods from the locals.” Aw, aw! So these trucks sleep in guest houses and purchase goods from locals? Can you imagine the size of a room or bed that will accommodate one cargo truck? It is most likely that the Honourable MP was not referring to the truck themselves sleeping in local hotels. He was referring to truck operators: the drivers and their assistants. To be true to what the Hon MP said, we propose the following re-write: “For his part, Nkenge MP, FK, said his Constituency was significantly affected by the absence of trucks passing through the area, since the movement of these trucks directly contributes to the local economy when truck operators use local guest houses as well as purchase goods and services from locals.” Meanwhile, the Minister for Agriculture is reported to have called upon farmers and traders to grab the opportunity of Kenya’s maize market as part of cooperation with East African countries, as is reported on page 4 of the Custodian of 13 May. Among others the Minister: “Also assured maize buyers ‘and other goods’ in the E.A. Community (EAC) that Tanzanian maize ‘are’ of ‘the’ high market standard”. So the Minister assured (1) maize buyers, and (2) other goods, in EAC on the quality of Tanzanian maize. Would these “other goods” really understand him, since they are not human. We think this is not what the Minister said. He should be reported to have: “assured buyers of maize and other goods in the E.A. Community (EAC) that Tanzanian maize ‘is’ (not: ‘are”) of high market standards”. Elsewhere, it is reported on page 3 of the Custodian that the Country’s think-tank, REPOA’s Executive Director said that: “Tanzania is ‘endorsed’ with resources which if effectively utilised will contribute a great deal in the country’s development”. “Endorsed with resources?” No. “Endowed with resources”. A photograph on page 2 of the Good Citizen has an interesting caption related to the recent visit to the country of the UK’s African Affairs Minister, JD, which in part reads: “Mr JD ‘would up’ his two-day visit to Tanzania”. He ‘wound-up’ his visit, surely! Enjoy your Idd!. lusuggakironde@gmail.com