The writer for the Good Citizen of Saturday May 22 (Sports page) had it right when he penned a news item titled: “It is a do or die for Simba today”, and went on to inform us that: “Football ‘giant’ in the country, Simba today need a 5-0 victory against Kaizer Chiefs of South Africa in order to qualify for the semi-finals of the African Champions League at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium”. Let’s clear one thing right away. Simba Sports Club are football giants (not “football giant”) as far as Tanzania is concerned. Preparing us for the return match, that was to take place that afternoon, the writer had this to say: “The match has been scheduled to start from 4pm would be officiated by Burundian referee Pacifique Ndabihawenimana”. The sentence lacks a pronoun such as “which”, or a conjunction such as “and”, to make it read as follows: “The match, ‘which’ has been scheduled to start from 4pm, will be officiated by Burundian referee Pacifique Ndabihawenimana”. Alternatively, it could read: “The match has been scheduled to start from 4pm ‘and’ will be officiated by Burundian referee Pacifique Ndabihawenimana”. The sentence following thereafter is rather ‘deformed’: “The team head coach Didier Gomes has managed to rectify all mistakes ‘costed the team to lose’ in away encounter”. How about saying: “The team head coach, Didier Gomes, has managed to rectify all the mistakes that led to the team losing, in the away match”. “Were the players on the ready for the match?”, the reporter may have asked; and may have gotten the following answer: “So far, no Simba player ‘who has been sustained injury’ ahead of ‘the encounter’ that gives the team’s technical bench good option in choosing the best players for ‘the encounter’”. Clearly, the phrase “who has been sustained injury”, needs rectification; and the two “encounters” could be reduced to one. Here we go: “So far, no Simba player has sustained any injury ahead of the encounter, and that gives the team’s technical bench, a wide room from which to choose the best players for the match”. The rest is possibly history. Much as Simba put up a gallant fight and got a score of 3-0, they were bundled out of the tournament on goal aggregate. We leave football for now, and turn to page 14 of the Good Citizen on Saturday (22 May) where we find an article titled: “Why we should let millennials have fun”. This is how the writer kicks off: “An ‘older’ man saunters into a pub and demands that the music playing is too loud and does not conform to perceived maadili (morals) of yesteryears…….”. “Older” is a comparative adjective. We really need to see “old” somewhere nearby. Since that is not the case, we believe the writer should have used another word instead of “older”, and we reckon this word is, “elderly”: “An elderly man saunters into the pub and etc ……..”. The writer goes “down memory lane” and recalls: “When we spun in the air like a helicopter whose rotor had ‘broken”. Now “a helicopter rotor” is a complex machine. It consists of a mast, a hub and rotor blades. In the unlikely case of malfunctioning, it is the “rotor blade” that is likely to break, not the whole rotor. Otherwise, we should talk of a helicopter rotor which had “broken down”, not, which had “broken”. Talking of “broken” versus “broken down”, brings us to page seven of the same paper. You will recall that there was a technical glitch, recently, as a result of which, people could not buy electricity using their phones. So, this regular columnist penned an article on the incident, titled: “Results of my research prompted by the absence of ‘LUKU’ electricity …..”, in which he goes through a litany of the woes he suffered from as a result, one of which was: “ My small generator was also ‘broken’ on account of having overused it without servicing” Oh no! The little generator was not “broken”. It “had broken down”. Pole sana Mzee. Have a nice weekend.. lusuggakironde@gmail.com