PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has assured the public that the government is keen on handling Covid-19, and that it will consider all precautions and expert advice on whether or not to accept vaccines as a remedy to the global pandemic. She made the statement on Friday when addressing the Eid Baraza held at the Karimjee grounds in Dar es Salaam, stressing that the government is extra careful in dealing with the pandemic. The Head of State who was the chief guest noted that before reaching into any decision, the government would consider advice that it has been receiving on the matter. Already, the president has formed a committee of experts that will advise her on the status of Covid- 19 in the country and the necessary steps to take. “I appreciate the cooperation and different pieces of advice that we have continued to receive from different people, but I want to assure you that the government is careful on it, and will consider all the precautions before reaching any decision,” she said. Adding; “We must continue cooperating with others, but this doesn’t mean that we are going to receive everything that has been recommended, as a country we have to make our own decision.” Meanwhile, President Samia used the occasion to remind Tanzanians in the private and public sector to maintain a spirit of hard working and at the same time putting forward national interest. She said all workers should be diligent and honest to the positions they are serving for the country to continue in provision of social services, including water, education, infrastructure, health and energy. “They should avoid being involved in malpractices, but adhere to all laws of the land,” she said, reminding businesses to continue meeting the obligation of paying government taxes on time. “Tax evasion is illegal and even a sin according to religious scriptures, business men have to continue being loyal to national development, as the government will be able to provide all the services it is supposed to,” insisted the President. Going forward, the head of state asked Muslims to continue doing good things that were observed during the holy month of Ramadan. She also spoke on the importance of Tanzanians continuing to protect and maintain national peace, unity and tranquility as it was the secret behind the country’s development. In another development, the National Muslim Council of Tanzania (Bakwata) has called on Muslims and Tanzanians in general to continue upholding peace and all good things they have learnt during Ramadan. Bakwata Secretary General, Mr Nuhu Mruma said that after successful completion of the holy month of worship, Muslims were required to continue maintaining all what they have learnt during Ramadan. “There is no doubt that during Ramadan, Muslims have been praying, studying the Quran, fasting and helping the needy, all these actions are moral and ethical codes of being pious,” he said. He said Bakwata commends President Samia Suluhu Hassan for outlining priorities of the sixth phase government, which include freedom, justice, democracy, good governance and press freedom. “Bakwata is pleased with your directives on dealing with various criminal cases pending in court and making evaluation of cases and dropping those which have no benefit to the nation." Mr Mruma, however, called upon the government and other respective authorities to speed up cases facing Muslim clerics which have taken too long because they deny their rights and increase the government burden of taking care of them. Tanzania Chief Sheikh, Mufti Abubakar Zubeir called upon Muslims to continue doing good things as they have been doing during the holy month. He also stressed on the need for Tanzanians to continue praying for peace of the country which is a key factor towards the country’s development. The Chief Sheikh also said that Tanzanians should protect their health by observing directives issued by health experts in preventing various diseases, including the coronavirus pandemic. “The holy books also stress on the importance of taking care of our health, thus we should not ignore directives given by
experts regarding prevention of the pandemic,” he said.