Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports will continue expanding the scope of media in the country to ensure that citizens enjoy their constitutional right by regularly accessing information in their lives and activities. That was said by Minister, Innocent Bashungwa further explaining that as from July, 2020 to May, 2021 a total of 14 new newspapers and magazines were licensed, where seven (newspapers were privately owned and seven State owned) “As of May 2021, Tanzania had 257 registered newspapers and magazines, where 206 were owned by the private sector and 51 State run,” he said, while presenting 54.74bn/-budget estimates and expenditures for the ministry for the financial year 2021/22. He further clarified that the network television currently stands as 451, radio being 23, and the blog 122 as well as online platform being 9. According to him, all licensed online advertising agencies continue to provide broadcasting services in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the sector. Appendix No. 1 notes the trend of Media registration until May, 2021. In the case of journalists' IDs, a total of 838 IDs were issued to local journalists in the period July 2020 to May, 2021. In the development, Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) will continue to create a conducive environment for the development of Information and Broadcasting sector through the various regulations governing the broadcasting sector. Equally, Mr Bashungwa pointed out that his ministry is committed to working on 13 issues from stakeholders that have been cited in the provision of broadcasting services in the country. These include ensuring that Artists, innovators, and those who are not involved in providing online news and current affairs provide online services and get the opportunity to do so, adding: “We will make sure they get a chance to improve local content, as well as present artist with a platform to advertise their work free of charge as long as they comply with the country’s laws.