THE country’s tourism sector is slowly but surely bouncing back after the Federal Government of Germany injected 56bn/- (€20million) to resuscitate the industry. Such a colossal funding is aimed at jumpstarting the 2.5 billion U.S. dollars a year sector, which is still reeling from the effects of Covid-19 Pandemic. “Mindful of what the industry has gone through amidst the Pandemic, Germany has opted to breathe in a fresh lease of life, as it struggles to get back on its feet,” revealed the Germany Ambassador to Tanzania Regine Hess, while briefing reporters here over the weekend. According to the envoy, the funding will be channeled towards helping the otherwise lucrative industry get out of the woods, in a special three-year project dubbed Emergency Recovery Fund for Biodiversity in Tanzania. The diplomat singled out Nyerere and the Serengeti national parks as the primary beneficiaries, with the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA), Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) and Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS) being the sole implementers of the project. “The project asserts Tanzania- Germany friendship, particularly Mwalimu Nyerere’s and Grzimek’s passion of promoting wildlife conservation in the country,” she added. Renowned for his Oscar film Serengeti Shall Not Die, Professor Bernhard Grzimek’s friendship with Tanzania founding President Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere endured for many years. Back in the 1960s, the Mwalimu Nyerere noted the significance of the wilderness areas for Tanzania’s national heritage in his “Arusha Manifesto”. In his rejoinder, Tourism and Natural Resources Minister Damas Ndumbaro revealed that the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the project’s implementation was on its final stage, with both parties finalizing paperwork. “Once it comes to fruition, the project will not only help the government, but also communities surrounding Serengeti and Nyerere ecosystems in conserving and protecting the flora and fauna of the two areas,” Dr Ndumbaro off soon after the budget reading, mid this year. According to Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) Assistant Conservation Commissioner in charge of the business development portfolio Ms Beatrice Kessy, the country had received more than 30,000 visitors to the country by July, last year. As one of Africa’s favorite tourist destinations, Tanzania is known for its breathtaking attractions, including stunning landscapes dotted with wildlife and a rich cultural heritage. Tourism is hence one of the cornerstones of Tanzania’s economy, contributing about 17.2% to the country’s gross domestic product and 25% of all foreign exchange revenues. The sector, which provides direct employment for more than 600,000 people, generated approximately 2.4 billion US dollars in 2018, government statistics show. In April this year, President Samia Suluhu Hassan laid emphasis on capitalizing on new tourism products with a view of bolstering the lucrative sector. The President, who was addressing lawmakers in Dodoma for the first time since she was sworn in as Head of State, said the country stands to reap more fortunes with such products in sight. She singled out Conference Tourism, Beach Tourism, Heritage Tourism and Cruise Ships as some of the potential products that the country could capitalize on. “The country aspires to identify new tourism products and also woo in more investors to the sector,” explained the President.