THE Court of Appeal has refused to review its judgment against Prison Warden, Sergeant Macdonald Kimambo, alias Aden, who was sentenced to death by hanging for killing four women, including two women prison officers after shooting them with a gun. Justices Stella Mugasha, Ferdinand Wambali and Rehema Kerefu reached into such a decision after dismissing an application for review lodged by Kimambo, the applicant, to oppose the decision of the Court, which confirmed the findings of the High Court against him. “We see no merit in the applicant’s application to warrant this Court to review its decision in Criminal Appeal No. 100 of 2008. Accordingly, this application fails in its entirety and it is hereby dismissed,” they declared. It was their considered opinion that the applicant could not establish any manifest error apparent on the face of record and agreed with the submissions presented by the prosecution that errors pinpointed by him could not fall under the Court’s review jurisdiction. The applicant was charged with four counts of murder of Vivian Zephania Mwanja, 1099 CPL Janeth Hamis, Happiness Chundu, alias Chausiku and 1104 CPL Veronica Kalungula. Upon conviction on all counts, he was sentenced to suffer death by hanging. He was aggrieved by the decision of the High Court and decided to appeal to the Court of Appeal, which also dismissed the appeal and confirmed both conviction of the unique murder incidence and the death sentence imposed on him. Still dissatisfied, the applicant lodged the application in question by way of a notice of motion made under Rule 66 (1) (a), (b) and (e) of the Tanzania Court of Appeal Rules, inviting the Court to review its decision on account that there is an error on the face of record resulting into miscarriage of justice. In the reasons for review, the applicant stated that he was wrongly deprived of an opportunity to be heard when the appeal was called on for hearing as some of the grounds of appeal which he raised and filed were abandoned by the Court without being consulted. According to him, the abandoned grounds of appeal were very crucial for the determination of the merit of appeal, particularly the one which had faulted the decision of the trial Judge for convicting him of a unique murder of four persons in the absence of any proof of his mental ability. The applicant stated that there has been a traverse of justice, in that he was subjected to an unfair trial since he was not afforded with an opportunity to argue and, or contest all grounds of appeal which he raised and filed before the Court. He contended further that the decision of the Court was based on manifest error on the face of record resulting in the miscarriage of justice as from the record of appeal the evidence of prosecution witness clearly shows that the applicant is a hot-tempered person who cries when he gets angry. In their deliberations, however, the justices noted that it was not in dispute that the applicant appeared at the hearing of his appeal on December 1, 2009 and that on that day the applicant was represented by Mr. Peter Swai, who argued the appeal. They also noted that it was also not in dispute that there were two memoranda, the substantive memorandum of appeal lodged by the applicant and the supplementary memorandum lodged by the applicant’s counsel, which were combined to one of defence of provocation. The justice recalled that it is trite position of the law that when an appellant has filed his grounds of appeal, an advocate who has been assigned to represent him may file a supplementary memorandum of appeal to or in substitution of the one lodged by the appellant. “It is therefore our considered view that, since in the application at hand, the applicant was duly represented by an advocate who combined the two memoranda in prosecuting the appeal, it cannot be said that such an act amounted to denying the applicant an opportunity of being heard,” they said. The justices also pointed out that even the applicant’s claim that his mental health was not considered is an afterthought, as that issue was not raised during the trial or even at the hearing of the appeal. They revisited the submissions of the applicant and noted that he invited the Court to revisit and re-assess the adduced evidence during the trial. “This is, with respect, not practicable, because if we do so, it will be like sitting on another appeal of our own decision,” they said.