THE government is taking measures to empower women economically to reduce poverty in the society, it has asserted. This was said by Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Mwanaidi Hamis before the National Assembly when answering a question from Husna Sekiboko (Special Seats-CCM). In her question, the MP sought to know about the strategies put in place by the government to enable women entrepreneurs get access to entrepreneurship training, prepare projects write-ups and connect them with financial institutions to get loans. Responding, the Deputy Minister told the House that women’s economic empowerment is a key issue in achieving gender equality and reducing income poverty in society. She said that the government has prioritized economic empowerment of women as a strategy to achieve gender equality in all fields. In empowering women economically and connecting them with financial institutions, the Deputy Minister pointed out that the government was organizing various economic forums for women entrepreneurs. Deputy Minister Mwanaidi noted that from 2019/20 to date the government has facilitated five conferences, one in each region, in five regions of Arusha, Dodoma, Singida, Ruvuma and Mbeya out of the 26 regional conferences planned. “At these conferences, education is provided on the use of simple and appropriate technologies in the production, establishment and joining of economic groups as well as the importance of adhering to the quality standards of the products produced to meet legal and marketing requirements,” she said. “The Ministry in collaboration with various stakeholders and district councils has continued building capacity to women entrepreneurs in the country in various entrepreneurial skills including how to improve services and products produced by women and preparation of project documents,” she said. The stakeholders, according to the deputy minister, are Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO), Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Medicine and Medical Authority (TMDA) and Business Registration and Licensing Authority (BRELA). She told the House that in 2019/20, a total of 3,424 women were reached out of 5,000 targeted.