TANZANIA Bureau of Standard (TBS) has introduced automated standardisation and quality control systems that would enable traders and manufacturers to access automated standardisation The system is centred to simplify standardisation of permits business, not only to the locals, but also regional or international investors. The system, introduced by TBS in partnership with Trademarks East Africa are Integrated Standard, Quality Assurance, Metrology and Testing (iSQMT), and e-Learning portal—an online system for conducting training to stakeholders. TBS Director General, Dr Athuman Ngenya, said some of the benefits including a reduction in time and transaction costs as stakeholders will no longer need to visit TBS offices for services related to standards and quality control, training, collection of permits and certificates. “Provision of automated services has largely reduced waiting and processing times and costs for TBS’s stakeholders to secure various services,” he said. Thus, through iSQMT, TBS has automated the following core processes, standards development, products certifications, import inspection, metrology and testing. “The data collected via the system will inform better decision making in the regulation and administration of the TBS process,” Dr Ngenya said over the weekend during the launch of the systems. Also, the iSQMT portal is integrated to the e-Government payment gateway platforms, which guarantee fully automated processes from application, payment and acquisition of the final products—certificate/permit. Due to the system introduction, TBS now predicts to significantly reduce incidences of loss and duplication of records since all the information required to process requests from stakeholders will be hosted within one system. Also the e-Learning portal will enable them to conduct train to some stakeholders’ online hence reaching masses in short period. The portal will host courses related to business management, international trade, system standards and standard requirement for selected products. “The online portal will help entrepreneurs and stakeholders to learn and increase productivity in their work environment and also for staff will help them evaluate themselves for the training they have provided,” he said. TBS and its partners have undertaken these training physically. The standard regulator is mandate to train the public and business community in the area of business, standards and quality control. TMEA Country Director, Mr John Ulanga, said the use of automated systems in provision of the government services has catalysed trade growth by providing efficient market linkage and enhancing business operations. “TMEA will continue supporting the government’s efforts to create jobs and reduce poverty,” he said. The digitalisation set to reduce trade costs and time, providing a strong avenue for industrialization and economic development to be realized in the country. The systems were funded by Foreign Commonwealth Development Office, Ireland and Norway. The development iSQMT portal costs 600,000 US dollars while e- learning 350,000 US dollars. TMEA works closely with East African Community (EAC) institutions, national governments, the private sector and civil society organisations to increase trade by unlocking economic potential through reducing barriers to trade and increased business competitiveness.