TODAY Simba Sports Club take on South Africa’s Kaizer Chiefs in Johannesburg, South Africa in the first leg of their CAF Champions League quarterfinals in a match very much likely to witness a lot of fireworks. Meanwhile in Dar es Salaam, a very interesting narrative has been making the rounds over today’s match in Johannesburg and it’s my hope that that narrative is not going to be swallowed by Simba players when they enter the pitch today to take on the South Africans. According to the narrative, Simba are going to have it easy because Kaizer Chiefs have lately not been doing well in their own local league. But to understand the folly of the foregoing argument, consider the following. Unlike Tanzania, South Africa started buying foreign players over two decades ago, actually before even their democratisation in May, 1994, I was there during the time and I know what I’m talking about. Secondly, which teams make the South African premier league in which Kaizer Chiefs is said not to be doing well? They include, among others, Mamelodi Sundowns, better known in South Africa as the Brazilians and Orlando Pirates. Now unlike our Tanzanian soccer clubs, both Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundown have already won the Champions League. The highest our clubs have reached in the Champions League was semifinal when the tournament was known as the All Africa Club Cup championship, quite a mouthful. And, the club that reached that level was Simba in 1974. But they were knocked out in Alexandria by Mehalla el Kubra. Orlando Pirates won the Champions League in 1996. This was in July, 1996, barely five months after South Africa’s national soccer team, Bafana Bafana had won the Africa Cup of Nations, Afcon in January, 1996 after beating Tunisia in the final by two goals to nil all scored by Mark Williams. Thirdly, we need to bear in mind that up to this point, South Africa has fielded two clubs in the Champions League and that speaks volume about the pedigree of the South African teams in their version of the premier league. Mamelodi Sundowns just like Simba SC led in their respective groups and Kaizer Chiefs finished second in their respective groups and that is why they are now taking on Simba. Of course, the South Africans who will be taking on Simba today are lying 9th in the league, which includes two former Champions League winners. Therefore, the foregoing picture should not keep our representative, Simba who are undoubtedly good in their own right, in the comfort zone. Fine, Kaizer Chiefs are lying ninth in the South African league table, but that does not mean they are weak. Besides, we need to note that Kaizer Chiefs would not have reached this stage had they been a weak team. We all know how they fought back, twice and away from home in Conakry, Guinea against an equally crack side, Horoya and knocked out their hosts from the tournament. In today’s match, Simba would have to be extremely careful against Kaizer Chiefs’ tall players, who are extremely good in corner kicks. Kaizer Chiefs are not very good in open play. You cannot, in any way, compare their ball skills to Mamelodi Sundowns who are, in my opinion, the really team to beat in the on-going Champions league. However, what brought Kaizer Chiefs this far are two main factors; namely, their telling ability to take chances whenever they get to their opponents’ goals, but more importantly, their never-say-die attitude. This is a team that Simba should not score a goal and sit back to protect the goal! It is a team that is very good in taking their chances. Today, Simba will have to attack relentlessly but also keep their backline extremely tight. In fact, one thing Simba will have to refrain from, is giving their hosts cheap corners. Kaizer Chiefs are extremely good in scoring from corner kicks due to the height of their players, especially their defenders. Therefore, contrary to the narrative which has been making the rounds in Dar es Salaam about the South Africans’ weaknesses; Kaizer Chiefs are no pushovers. They are very much capable of springing surprises against Simba. This is a match Simba will have to work extremely hard and to ensure that they score as many goals as possible. They need to note that they would be playing against a team that earned its quarterfinal ticket away from home and that certainly speaks volumes about the team’s pedigree. Kaizer Chiefs are dangerous both at home and away from home. Besides, South African clubs are very experienced in continental soccer tournaments. We need to note that they have also produced a man, former Mamelodi Sundowns’ tactician, Pitso Motsemane, who is currently handling multiple Champions League winners, Egypt’s Al Ahly.