RESIDENTS of the East African Community (EAC) partner states deserve quality innovative health services. They deserve it even more at this time when the world has been hard hit by Covid-19 and other related diseases. As countries keep opening up their borders after international travel restrictions, partial and total lockdowns, there is danger of emergence of new health threats. EAC Secretary General, Dr Peter Mathuki has thus urged the East African Health Research Commission (EAHRC) to provide the people of East Africa with innovative solutions to various challenges they face in health. He said there is need for a special regional joint response to the pandemic and other diseases to ensure EAC residents are safe and sound. The Secretary General commended the work done thus far by the Commission in improving the health and wellbeing of East Africans through health research and findings. He said he is also happy with technological development that is suitable and relevant to the Community and its people. Dr Mathuki who was speaking at the Commission’s Headquarters in Bujumbura, Burundi at his maiden visit, urged the EAHRC members of staff to work as a team. The new SG who has been on a familiarization tour in partner states ensured support to the Commission’s staff so that they can serve the people to the best of their ability. “As a Commission, you are a very small team, but I urge you all to strive to build a strong team, and in whatever you do, always ask yourself whether it is for the greater good of the Community,” said the SG. The Acting Executive Secretary of EAHRC, Dr Novat Twungubumwe briefed the Secretary General on the key achievements and challenges of the Institution. He thanked the Secretary General for taking his time to visit the Commission and urged him to help remove some bottlenecks hindering the Commission from fully executing its mandate. The visit to the EAHRC marked the start of Dr Mathuki’s first official visit to the Republic of Burundi since taking office as the EAC Secretary General. During this visit, Dr Mathuki will hold consultative meetings with various regional integration stakeholders to identify strategies that could facilitate the alignment of Burundi’s and the region’s development priorities. Dr Mathuki was accompanied by the Speaker of the East African Legislative Assembly, Mr Martin Ngoga; the Judge President of the East African Court of Justice, Justice Nestor Kayobera; Registrar of the Court, His Worship Yufnalis Okubo and the EAC Director of Finance, Mr Juvenal Ndimurirwo.