THE careful control and effectiveness of water resources laws in accordance with the constitution by the Basin Water Boards have contributed to the growth of revenue of the Ministry of Water through different types of penalties. The penalties include those imposed to those who drill water wells and those using water resources without legally recognised permits. This was stated recently by the Director of Pangani Basin Water Board (PBWB), Eng Segule Segule while speaking to reporters in Kilimanjaro Region at a session aimed at raising awareness to journalists on the PBWB’s daily activities. "In order to control the use of water resources without the relevant permits, we have been conducting various operations, where already more than 450 unscrupulous water resource users have been found guilty of unlawful use of water without relevant permits from PBWB or a licence from the ministry of water”, he said, adding that the culprits were arrested within the PBWB geographical areas of operations in Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions and a part of Manyara region. Eng Segule went on to say, “These offenders were subjected to various legal action, including paying fines in accordance with the procedures laid down before going on to acquire the needed permits and licenses, hence the increase of the ministry of water revenues”. He also said that through these operations about three months ago, PBWB was able to identify and take legal action against two water well drilling companies for carrying out such activities illegally. Eng. Segule called upon potential new water resources users to ensure they follow all the required legal procedures before ordering the water wells drilling companies to serve their purpose, and that when in doubt, they should seek advice from the PBWB's management. The water ministry's license costs 2 m/-, but you find someone deciding to engage in illegal activities; if you are found to be involved in water drilling or illegal use of water resources, the fine will be 4 m/, and after paying the fine you will still have to pay the 2 m/ for the acquisition of the license; the choice is yours”, warned Eng. Segule. He also said it was an offense to use water resources illegally without getting water rights permit from PBWB, whereby he warned that those found guilty of that offence will be fined between 500,000/- and 5 m/- or face between 6 months or 5 years’ imprisonment. Eng. Segule said PBWB will continue with its various operations to ensure all water resource users abide by the water resources utilization obligations, whereby the intention was to make sure that the water resources are used equally among people. 