PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi has said the government is considering helping pilgrims who are planning to travel to Mecca, Saudi Arabia for pilgrimage to meet all travel conditions. Speaking during the Eid El Fitr Baraza, President Mwinyi assured wananchi that the government is keen to facilitate the journey for the pilgrims amid the ongoing global health challenges. “After the end of the Holy Month of Ramadhan, some of our collegues are planning to go to Mecca for pilgrimage, which is the fifth pillar and the most significant manifestation of Islamic faith and unity in the world... we are aware that last year we had no opportunity to go for the prayers due to Covid -19 outbreak,” Dr Mwinyi said. He added that this year the Saudi government has announced that only immunised people will be granted permit to perform the prayers in Mecca. “We are still waiting for more clarification on the conditions set by the Jeddah authorities, and the government will consider helping people who plan to travel to Mecca,” Dr Mwinyi said as he encouraged Muslims to make pilgrimage and not wait until retirement age. The President said that Zanzibar government will make special arrangement to help Isles pilgrims to meet the conditions set by the Saudi government so that they can go and fulfill one of the five pillars of Islam. Normally as per Islamic calendar, Ramadhan is followed later by pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia, and preparations have already started for the great journey. All Muslims are expected to perform at least once in their lives if they are physically and financially capable to make the journey to Mecca. However, in efforts to control the spread of Covid- 19, Saudi Arabia has announced that only vaccinated people will be allowed into the country for the spiritual annual gatherings. On Friday, Muslims in the isles joined their colleagues worldwide to celebrate Eidel- fitr which marks the end of the holy month of Ramadhan, as clerics called on wananchi to maintain peace and stability along with calls for global intervention in the Israel and Palestine fetal conflicts to save lives. “Fasting is over, but we learned a lot during the holy month which we must maintain. We should not go back to fraud, theft, and other bad behaviours,” clerics said in different Mosques. Eid prayers in Zanzibar were held at the Maisara grounds in the city and followed by Eid Baraza at the ‘Sheikh Idrissa Abdulwakil’ multi-purpose Hall. President Mwinyi echoed the call for political stability and helping the needy, such as the divorced, children living in difficult environment, orphans, and people with disability.