IN one of the most read book it is written “In the beginning when God created the heavens and the earth, the earth was formless wasteland and darkness covered the abyss while a mighty wind swept over the waters. Then God said let there be light and there was light. God saw how good the light was, God then separated the light from the darkness he called the darkness night” To those who are inquisitive, the state of the prehistoric world rises a good number of questions but scientists and historians have their own approach about what happened before the time. Paleontologists say the universe came into being about 13.8 billion years ago, meanwhile scientists define the universe as all of space and time and their contents including planets, stars, galaxies, and all other forms of matter and energy. Furthermore, the physical universe is defined as all of space and time and their contents, Such contents comprise all of energy in its various forms, including electromagnetic radiation and matter, and therefore planets, moons, stars, galaxies, and the contents of intergalactic space. On their side philosophers say the universe is often defined as “the totality of existence”, or everything that exists, everything that has existed, and everything that will exist. The totality of the universe cannot be explained without mentioning the Sun, this is a star at the center of the Solar System, scientists estimate that the Sun was formed more than 4.6 billion years ago from the collapse of part of a giant molecular cloud that consisted mostly of hydrogen and helium and that probably gave birth to many other stars. Scientists say the Sun is located about 149, 597, 870 kilometers away from the Earth and accounts for about 99.86% of the total mass of the Solar System. History shows the was planet Earth was formed later about 4.5 billion years ago when the universe expanded due what scientists say very high density and high temperature. This situation created a special window which allowed a huge rainy cloud from Mars to migrate and hovered on top of our planet and brought shower for the first time on the Earth’s surface about 4.4 million years ago. At the same time some geological evidences indicate the first life evolved on the earth’s surface about 4.1 billion years ago. And these ancient creatures were microscopic organisms. Fossil records show that the world was dominated by single cell organisms which thrived in the sea from about 4 billion years ago. The above account shows the complexity behind creation because it is written on one book that the Almighty God called the light day and the darkness he called night, meanwhile scientists say that was the time when real life was not present in the planet which comprised of one ancient supercontinent, that could be what gave the rise Ur which paleontologists believe was a supercontinent that formed more 3 billion years ago and perhaps the oldest continent on Earth. In the early period of Ur’s existence, it was probably the only continent on Earth and all other land was in the form of small granite islands and small landmasses that were not large enough to be continents. This is proven by one of book of history which state that “then God said let be waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place and the dry land appear and it was so” Paleontologists say from that time surface of the Earth experienced a dramatic change about 3.7 million years ago when oxygen evolved and started to establish itself as an important element for life in the planet which was composed mainly by volcanic and greenhouse gases. Then from about 3.5 billion years ago to make life possible on Earth, the almighty God accumulated the water mass in one place and named it ocean. Ocean and sea is what scientists today are using the word Biosphere to represent the liquid mass which occupies the largest portion of the Earth. It’s believed that Biosphere came after the decrease of hot waves from the core center which is also known as Asthenosphere This lead into the emerging of Lithosphere or dry land with fertile soil which also supports lives of animals, plants and micro organisms. To make the planet Earth to be unique from others, the first stage of photosynthesis process evolved into the Earth about 3.5 billion years ago and this enabled the prehistoric plants to thrive because they were able to use a primitive process of photosynthesis evolved into another stage into the ancient world about 3.4 billion years ago, different researches indicate that some plants became extinct when they failed to use the ancient photosynthesis process, that was an important step of creation and evolution because about 2.1 billion years ago a blue green algae thrived while others perished. That was a period when the atmosphere around the world changed about 2.4 billion years ago after receiving a good amount of oxygen which was produced by plant. Scientists say different fossils indicate that most ancient plants evolved about 1.2 billion years ago from single celled algae and during the primitive process of photosynthesis these prehistoric creatures used water as a reducing agent to produce oxygen as their byproduct. That was an important era in existence and thriving of life on the Earth because about 1.5 billion years ago the Earth passed through a long ice age which wiped out most of ancient plants that existed in the prehistoric world. Different the Earth was dominated by four periods with heavy ice sheets each lasting for 10 million yeas between 750 and 590 million years ago when the average temperatures were about −50 °C or −58 °F which made life impossible on the third planet from the Sun. On the other side those were significant changes on the earth’s surface because about 580 million years ago the availability of enough oxygen contributed again into the evolution of complex multicellular organisms a group which was mainly made by bacteria. Historians say between 555 and 539 million years ago ancestors of all arthropods started to evolve on the Earth’s surface then about 530 million years ago different ancient creatures started to undergo different changes which enabled them to thrive under the sea water. Fossils records show about 525 million years ago something very important in history of evolution took place when some of them such as the giant dragonfly which used its 55 to 70 centimeters wingspan to migrate and dominate savannah of the ancient world. That was followed by another situation which happened about 485 million years ago when a jawless fish evolved into the sea and become one of the first vertebrate animals in the world. History shows that the savannah could not be what we see today without what happened about 450 million years ago when the first land plant evolved and thrived, then about 434 million years ago plants which stationed themselves on the sea shores evolved with primitive mechanism which enabled them migrated into the land side by side with fungus but different researches indicate the wildness of the savannah today came into being after what happened geological researches indicate that about 400 million years ago insects were the first to evolve with wings. The presence of these ancient creatures enabled the evolution of another generation of ancient plants evolved into one of original ecosystem about 385 million years ago, scientists say these were plants which were very tall with wide leaves which enabled the primitive photosynthesis to work efficiently in the world which was experiencing different changes. Scientists say about 360 million years ago plants developed a well mechanism which used stomata and adapted xylem and phloem vascular tissues which enabled them to spread into different ecosystems including arid and semi arid lands where the savannah is available today. Within the same period ancestors of modern green plants got well defined leaves, that was an important stage of evolution for plants because the presence of vascular conducting system helped them to use their environment effectively by obtaining carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and roots which draw water from the ground. History show the Earth’s surface got some changes about 358.9 million years ago when average global temperatures rose to 20 °C or 68 °F, this kind of climate favored the expansion of ancient forests. That is when second generation of seed plants appeared about 340 million years ago and triggered the flourishing of the ancient forests in different parts of the world, the existence of both flowering and seed plants. Today scientists estimate that the planet Earth is covered by more than 315,000 species of plant which silently hold an upper hand above other terrestrial creatures of the world, the list includes cucumbers which their ancestors evolved about 319 million years ago and enabled a smooth evolution of arthropods about 319 million years ago. On the other side, the history of the world indicates that the earliest avian evolved about 160 million years ago and this were ancestors of modern birds. Scientists say the first flowerlike plant about evolved about 150 million years ago Fossils records show that ancestors of flies and beetles were the first agents of the ancient pollination process but about 145 million years ago. History show about 145 million years ago prehistoric generation of bees contributed massively in this process as they collected nectars from one plant to another while playing a key role in distribution of pollens and enabled expansion of flowering plants into different ecosystems. Not only that, about 100 million years ago, fossil records dated that time indicate that asteroids attacked the Earth from the Solar system and influenced geological and metrological changes on the ground and sky. Regardless of what happened due to the asteroids attacks, on the earth life continued to thrive because between 100 and 40 million years ago plant developed special mechanism which helped them enabled them to survive in harsh condition dominated with long dry seasons and low oxygen. This is proved by paleontologists who estimate the modern pollination process started about 65 million years ago.