THE government yesterday unveiled massive plans to transform the education sector to align with the country’s industrial economy drive. The Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako said review of education laws, policies and national curriculum were among measures to be implemented in the next financial year. Prof Ndalichako revealed this when tabling her ministry’s 1.38tri/- budget estimates for the 2021/22 fiscal year. She insisted that the proposed changes are in line with the changes in science and technology, noting that the country must prepare youth to meet the needs of the current market industry. She said the government’s focus in the education sector during the next financial year will be reviewing the 1978 Education Act, Education and Training policy (2014) as well as the national curriculum. “The Education Act must match with the needs of the employment market in the country, we are therefore looking forward to providing education that gives skills so that our youth could compete in the market,” she noted. She added that the Education and Training Policy of 2014 will as well be reviewed to fulfill industrial needs. “With technological innovations, vocational competence and technical skills, the country can build up a vibrant industrial sector,” she noted. According to Prof Ndalichako, the government is committed to promote technical education by enhancing practical training in the public technical schools such as Iyunga, Ifunda, Tanga, Bwiru Boys, Musoma, Mwadui, Moshi and Mtwara. The review, Prof Ndalichako said, will address the skills and vocational knowledge gaps in both primary and secondary schools by putting much weights on agriculture, technical skills and vocational studies. Other subjects under special focus include social studies, sports, commerce and entrepreneurship. Moreover, she said, the government will reevaluate curricula that are presently in use to ensure that the teaching and learning are conducted in accordance to the set criteria. Prof Ndalichako said some of the criteria to be observed are the number of students in a class. She said the number of students must match with the number of teaching aids and gadgets under the teacher’s instructions. She added that the government through her ministry will review the national curricula at all education levels to ensure knowledge and skills are imparted as required and by considering the market demands. The minister also pledged for improved education infrastructure in the country and close monitoring of quality education provision in both primary and secondary schools. “We are going to set strategies that will enable education officers to make close monitoring and quick intervention wherever there is a problem, this will help to improve our education,” she said. Prof Ndalichako assured the Parliament that the government is planning to come up with guidelines on how to identify and mould students with special talents in primary, secondary schools and teachers training colleges. She said that there is a need to set up a best model on how to nourish and develop talented students to attain the benchmark. In the 2021/22 financial year, Prof Ndalichako said the government will register 450 schools and train education quality assurance officers. The government will also ensure students with special needs and those with disabilities get improved education. “The government will support students with special needs and disabilities from poor families to get quality education by paying school fees and other required contributions,” said Prof Ndalichako. The minister said in the coming financial year, the NACTE will register a total of 50 colleges that will offer technical training and give accreditation to 60 colleges to increase the number of colleges that offer the training in the country.