Dear President, I RUMINATE the public, nationally, regionally and internationally finally is seeing the transparent process conferred within the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party in its leader’s election process. Therefore, on my behalf, I am writing to congratulate you on your recent election to the position of Chairperson of the CCM ruling party with 1862 vote’s equivalent to 100 percent. Your election reiterates and builds on more than 85 percent of votes you attained during 2020 election, grounded on good work done jointly between yourself and the late Dr John Pombe Magufuli (JPM) during the last election. I look forward to continuing as a normal citizen of this beautiful country of Tanzania to work hard and support your work to lead the party and lead Tanzania as a nation. Your election comes at a time of showing the region and the rest of the world on how clear as crystal and open, the ruling party CCM is matured as one of strongest political parties in Africa, especially when it is time to elect its leaders for various positions, from lower to national high position levels. The main objective now is all of us as members of the CCM to regain the trust and interest to support your secretariat and work at the CCM as ruling party in leading Tanzania and Tanzanian people. It is my envisioned hope that the Tanzania Parliament with CCM representative being the majority as the democratically elected body of Tanzania will carry on to play a major role to take the government on right track to deliver to the people of Tanzania. Your excellence, as you know, Tanzanians expectations to continue putting trust and hope on your leadership is tight, and this in my view will remain strong as now elected as chairperson of the party with effective from 30th April 2021. I am self-assured that you will continue to implement what the second-in-commandthe party registration greetings echoed in Dodoma affirming that CCM is a matured political party in leading and putting in order in its election processes of its leaders. I would also like to take this opportunity to extend my personal congratulations following your focused and clear speech delivered at the special meeting that upheld you to the party’s chairperson position on 30th April 2021. I am certain that your presence will greatly strengthen the ties within the party, heal any cracks if any and unite all as one. I have trailed your career as stipulated in your CV placed before the delegates and was excited to read about your career. I can hearty state that I am always impressed with your clear vision and ability to get the job done engraved on the previous work you did under the previous governments. Based on your speech following 100 percent received victory, I was mesmerised by each word you voiced and acknowledging the trust delegates gave you on the role ahead of you, especially following party’s constitutions and terms and condition in addition to over 20 years in high level decision level. More interested on your word on unity, collaboration engraved within party machinery, your vision on aligning the party’s to evolving world development dynamics indicates that CCM party is up to date party. I hope you will continue to work greater than before interests to lead CCM party as one unit and the nation while building Tanzanians’ trust on the ruling party. Lastly, acknowledging challenges you face as the new chairperson including transport logistics and unpaid outstanding, these in my view are things whose solution is possible when working as one united party. I wish you success during your mandate as chairperson of the CCM ruling party and President of the United Republic of Tanzania. ● The writer, Hildebrand Shayo is an economist-cuminvestment banker.