ARGUABLY the main topic under discussion in many forums here is about the future of the Government of National Unity (GNU) reformed last year with objective of burying political hatred which had gripped the Islands since the re-introduction of multi-party democracy in 1992. Since the rebirth of GNU on 7th December, 2020 when late Seif Sharif Hamad and President Hussein Ali Mwinyi, almost in all speeches and remarks by top leaders [President Mwinyi, First Vice President Othman Masoud Othman and Second Vice President Hemed Suleiman Abdalla] vowed to promote love among Zanzibaris. This is also echoed by other people and human rights activists such as the Zanzibar Press Club (ZPC), Pemba Press Club (PPC), and the Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA)- Zanzibar, who are carrying out programmes to sensitize Journalists to promote GNU. People like Mzee Haroun Omar and Zaitun Suleiman say Dr Mwinyi has shown great interest in uniting Zanzibaris. “We think dark days in politics are now over. Majority are happy including the opposition.” “Under GNU, Zanzibar is stable. We can now engage in nation building without crises. Even war against violation of women and children rights can be successful when we are united,” says Dr Mzuri Issa- director, TAMWA- Zanzibar. During the ‘second peace conference’ held here (Zanzibar) early this year, attendees from different countries admired the development of Isles GNU formed after the October 2020 general elections saying already there are indication of commitments. Mwinyi joined with ‘Friends of Zanzibar’ and other stakeholders in democracy to commit that peace is above political differences, advising everyone to help build a culture of peace which links directly to development. “Peace remains important in achieving what we plan for the people. And even the United Nations has since 1946 discussed and promoted peace and stability globally,” Dr Mwinyi as the ‘2nd Zanzibar peace Conference’. He said that having peace in Zanzibar along with strengthening war against corrupt leaders and civil servants, fraud, and perpetrators of gender based violence, was an act of respect to the founders of Tanzania- late Mwalimu Nyerere and Abeid Amani Karume who formed the unique union. He reminded participants that the UN Member States adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015; and its Goal 16 is targeting promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, providing access to justice for all and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman- State Minister, President’s office (Constitution, Legal Affairs, Public Service and Good Governance) said that so far, since the return of GNU, last year when ACTWazalendo accepted to join the government, public acceptance is high and people have been working together/ taking part in development programmes together. Ambassadors from: Ms Elisabeth Jacobsen (Norway), Mr Didier Chassot (Switzerland), and Ms Regina Heiss (Germany) attended the ‘Zanzibar peace conference’ and each had an interesting message the attendees, at different occasions, commended Dr Mwinyi and the opposition leader late Maalim Seif for forming the government of national unity and promoting peace. The envoys said that there was a strong link between peace and sustainable development a prerequisite in healing political wounds with commitment and political will as they promised to continue supporting Zanzibar achieve its development goals. “There was violence, miss trust, and dissatisfaction after the general elections, but against this backdrop, political parties have agreed to work together. Let all Zanzibaris invest in sustainable peace, ´ Mr Chassot said. Mr Suleiman Pandu (student) and Ms Siti Ali (journalists) who benefited from training about promoting peace joined other participants to commend media associations and development partners in supporting making Zanzibar free of political hatred after the elections. Participants from Mozambique, Malawi, Kenya, DRC Congo, Rwanda, and Burundi shared their experience about peace because many countries need peace now, but the only challenge is how to get to peace without political will. After the death of Maalim Seif, president Mwinyi appointed Othman Masoud Othman the new First Vice President of Zanzibar. Maalim died on Wednesday February 17, this year was buried on the following day at his home village, Nyali- Mtambwe, north Pemba. The appointment of Othman was welcomed by many with some people such as Ms Catherine Peter Nao- Secretary- Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) special committee, Zanzibar “We congratulate him for the appointment. Although late Maalim Seif’s shoes may not fit him properly, I think he will work with President Mwinyi for the development of Zanzibar.” Ms Fatma Fereji from ACT-Wazalendo congratulated Othman for the appointment, “I believe he will perform to the expectation of the people, and provide assistance to the president Mwinyi.” In different functions, Othman urges all Zanzibaris regardless of political affiliation to maintain GNU, peace and stability because it guarantees development including job opportunities. “When we dwell in peace and stability, while everyone takes a role in maintaining it, both local and foreign investors will be attracted to invest in the country and hence create jobs,” Othman said during his recent tour of Unguja and Pemba to visit comfort the sick.