MINISTER for Minerals Mr Dotto Biteko has called upon Tanzanians to have confidence in local investors because they are capable of transforming industrial sector in the country. Mr Biteko made the call this week after laying a foundation stone for the new Geita Gold Refinery (GGR) plant built by a local investor and is considered to be the largest mining factory in East and Central Africa. He said that, during the process of looking for an investor to build the plant, the tender was awarded to a local investor who was a woman but many people believed that she could not manage the project and others were also trying to discourage issuing licence to the investor. “Mother, let me tell you, you have given us a great honour, you have clothed us, you have glorified us, and I pray to God to help you to achieve your vision so that all things go as you have planned,” said Mr Biteko. The Geita Regional Commissioner (RC), Engineer Robert Gabriel expressed gratitude to the investor for showing interest to invest in the region. He pledged to continue using local professionals and provide them with practical training so that they would learn new technologies and manage other similar projects. “We will continue to protect investors who continue to come here, and this market will transform our economy and increase government revenue ... I have spoken to my defense and security committee to provide 24 hours security when the plant starts operating “ he said. GGR Director, Mr Athuman Mfutakamba, said the factory built at USD 8,000,000, equivalent to 20bn/-, a loan from Azania Bank and is expected to boost purity of the precious metal to about 99.99 per cent. Mr Mfutakamba said the plant had the capacity to refine 440 kilogrammes of gold per day, and would be able to buy 4000 kilogrammes of gold per year as raw material from small-scale and artisanal miners in the country and elsewhere outside Tanzania for enhancing quality. According to him, as the factory starts operating, it will be able to contribute immensely to the government revenue where it has also been awarded a certificate that allows the gold extracted to be exchanged as money in various banks around the world.