TANZANIA is pushing to build its African liberation heritage center that will house the continent’s decades-long struggle and sacrifice for freedom. The plan that remains at infancy level close to a decade now was activated by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on Friday, May 21, 2021. Majaliwa ordered the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports and that of Natural Resource and Tourism to speed up identifying ancestry areas that qualify to be recognized as national heritage sites. It is understood, Tanzania and South Africa agreed in 2017 to build the African liberation heritage center in Dodoma, unfortunately, the plan hasn’t got to maturity. Kongwa town, in central Tanzania—is one of the key town that was used as an exile of freedom fighters from the Southern African countries. It is the town the liberation centre is expected to be built but in accordance with the African Union and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) standards. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said Friday the recommendations of the areas will be included in the state gazette and will receive full government protection. Addressing a conference organized to recognize and commemorate various contributions of Tanzania’s history to the liberation of the African continent, the premier wanted Tanzanians to be proud of that history. “Which is possible through working hard, protecting the country's resources…,” he said. The prime minister on the other hand emphasized the use of the reach Kiswahili Language in both local and international conferences. Teaching Tanzania history was another highlight, Majaliwa emphasized saying “It's a must to all children and students in school.” The conference has been organized as part of the African Union resolution that identified Tanzania as the key center for African liberation heritage. “The forum is set to give important knowledge to the public over the journey of economic and intellectual liberation in Africa,” said Information Minister, Innocent Bashungwa. Dr. Hassan Abbas, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry said the aim of the conference was to celebrate Tanzania's contribution to the liberation of the African continent. According to the program, it is expected the delegates will deliberate African Liberation Heritage Program and its importance to Tanzania and Africa. Dr. Abbas noted that some of the important testimonies will be drawn from living freedom fighters.