PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday named 26 regional commissioners in an appointment that has also seen changes in some government institutions, including the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) and the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). A statement that was released by the director of Presidential Communications, Gerson Msigwa says President Samia has also promoted the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Salum Hamduni to the rank of Commissioner of Police (CP) and appointed him the PCCB Director General. Ms Samia also named Sylvester Mwakitalu as the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), replacing Mr Biswalo Mganga who was early this week appointed a High Court judge by the President. Other institutions that have seen changes from yesterday’s appointment include the Parliament of Tanzania, the ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, National Service, as well as the Dar es Salaam Rapid Bus Transit (DART). While appointing ten new faces in the RC’s lineup, the head of state has also relocated 14 others and retained two others to their current work stations and dropping seven others on different reasons, including retirement from public service. Those who have retired include Godfrey Zambi, who was the Regional Commissioner for Lindi, Brig Gen Nichodemus Mwangela (Songwe), Loata Erasto Ole Sanare (Morogoro), Dr Rehema Nchimbi (Singida), Anna Mghwira (Kilimanjaro), Joachim Wangabo (Rukwa), Evarist Ndikilo (Coast Region) as well as Idd Kimanta (Arusha). A statehouse statement has it that the outgoing Mtwara RC, Gelasius Byakanwa will be assigned other duties, and same applies to the PCCB Director General, Brig Gen John Mbungo and the Deputy Director of Public Prosecution (DDPP) Mr Edson Makallo who has been replaced with Mr Joseph Pande. The list of new RCs and their work stations in brackets are Maj Gen Charles Mbuge (Kagera) Brig Gen Wilbert Ibuge (Ruvuma), Stephen Kagaigai (Kilimanjaro), Makongoro Nyerere (Manyara), Amos Makala (Dar es Salaam), David Kafulila (Arusha), Rosemary Senyaule (Geita) and Queen Sendiga (Iringa), Mwananvua Mrindoko (Katavi) and Omar Mgumba (Songwe). Prior to their new appointment Maj Gen Mbuge was the head of National Services, Brig Gen Ibuge was the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, while Mr Kagaigai was the Clerk of the National Assembly. The new lineup also includes Aboubakar Kunenge who becomes the Coast Region boss from Dar es Salaam. Others are Anthony Mtaka (Dodoma), Zainab Telack (Lindi), Eng Robert Gabriel (Mara), and Juma Homera (Mbeya), and Martin Reuben Shigella (Morogoro). Brig Gen Marco Gaguti becomes the Mtwara RC, Albert Chalamila (Mwanza), Joseph Mkirikiti (Rukwa), Dr Binilith Mahenge (Singida), Dr Philemoin Sengati (Shinyanga), and John Mongella (Simiyu). The former Iringa Regional Commissioner Ally Hapi has been appointed the new Tabora boss, while Adam Malima who was in Mara has been transferred to Tanga as Thobias Andengenye and Marwa Rubirya have been retained to their current positions in Kigoma and Njombe respectively. Apart from appointing the regional commissioners, the President also named Amb Joseph Sokoine as the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, taking over from Brg Gen Ibuge who has been appointed the Ruvuma RC. President Samia has also appointed Ms Nenelwa Mwihambi to the position of Clerk of the National Assembly, replacing Mr Kagaigai who becomes the RC for Kilimanjaro. In another development, the Head of State has revoked the appointment of the DART Director General, Mr John Nguya, replacing him with former Commissioner General for Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Dr Edwin Mhede.