THE founder of Under the Same Sun (UTSS) Peter Ash has condemned the resurfacing killings of people with albinism in Tanzania, describing it as retrogressive given the achievements made since 2015. Mr Ash made the condemnation in reaction to the recent killing of a 5–6-year-old unidentified boy. His mutilated body was discovered by villagers in the bushes of a rural area near a pond in Usadala sub-village of Utemini village, Ndono Ward in Uyui District of Tabora Region. According to witnesses of the incident, the body was found with severed arms, his eyes removed and his left ear and genitals hacked off. “The news of this murder is particularly alarming as there has not been a killing of this type reported in Tanzania since February 17, 2015. UTSS records contain evidence of 407 killings and attacks on people with albinism from 30 nations,” he said In a statement to the media, Mr Ash said the body of the deceased was found between 3 or 4 May 2021 the identity and family home of the boy is not known yet. He said on the day the boy’s body was found, Village leaders sent the report to the Uyui District Police Station between 12:00 noon and 1:00 pm.  Between 3:00 and 4:00 pm the same day, police officers arrived at the crime scene and examined the body of the deceased boy and took various photos of the body. The reports from the villagers (where the body was found) who were interviewed by the investigating team, as well as the reports from the doctor and the Head of the District Criminal Investigation Department confirmed that the mutilated body was that of a child with albinism. “The police force and villagers confirmed that the murdered boy with albinism was not from Utemini village or its neighbouring villages. The Ward Executive Officer inspected eight villages within his Ward and was unable to identify any family that has lost a child with albinism,” he said Mr Ash said UTTS in solidarity with the Legal and Human Rights Center (LHRC), echo their appeal to the relevant authorities in the country to ensure that relevant authorities widely disseminate this information to the public in Tanzania in hopes of identifying the victim’s family so they may attend the place of his burial. “We also call upon relevant authorities to ensure that a fully transparent and comprehensive investigation into this heinous crime is conducted and the perpetrators are handed over to state authorities,” said Mr Ash UTSS has been at the forefront of defending the rights of people with albinism internationally – with a focus on Tanzania and Africa since its inception in 2008. UTSS holds credentials at the UN Human Rights Council and within various groups at the African Union.