ON 21 May 1996, MV Bukoba, sank 30 nautical miles (56 km) off Mwanza in 25 metres (14 fathoms) of water, drowning more than 500 passengers on board. Among the dead were some 40 children returning from their final exams in a government school in Bukoba. Most of the victims remained trapped inside the steel hull as the ship went down, and by week’s end hundreds had yet to be recovered from their watery tomb. One of the lucky survivors of the tragedy was Daudi Yusufu who was a cook in the ship. Now an old man of 73 years, Mzee Yusufu still carries the memory of the deadliest disaster in the history of Lake Victoria navigation. “It is purely 100 per cent God’s greatest miracles that helped me to cheat death in the deadly MV Bukoba accident on 21 May, 1996,” he begins as he narrates what happened on the day. The lake waters were smooth as the ship set out from Bukoba at 10 p.m. on Monday, May 20, bound for its next port of call, Kemondo Bay, just 20 km away. But when it docked there, hundreds of travellers who had been denied passage at Bukoba, and had journeyed to Kemondo by truck, rushed the gangway and flooded onto the ship, settling in every available open space. He says he was in the captain’s cabin at the time of accident when he heard a voice ordering him to leave the cabin. He ignored the first and second calls, but responded to the last one and quickly obeyed the order, though he wasn’t able to see or recognize whose voice it was. Mr Yusuf went straight to the ship’s buffet, took a look outside and found MV Bukoba’s left side was submerged in the water. He quickly went back upstairs, straight to the rescue boats, but before doing anything, the MV Bukoba overturned, upside down, and he was thrown down into the water. Then after, Mr Yusuf was several times going deep into the water and coming back to the capsizing ship. When came up for the last time, he was able to see a ship propeller and he hang on it for a couple of minutes, strictly with nowhere to stand. He got tired and was about to surrender but luckily he saw a life jacket hanging nearby. “I was pulled out up to a small part of the ship which was still not submerged in because MV Bukoba continued drowning,” said Mzee Yusufu. “It was some men who had survived the ordeal made a long rope using their shirts and tied it to a life jacket to pull out their fellows from the water. The survivors, including Mr Yusuf were about to surrender as the small and only available surfacing space on the drowning ship was about to disappear, but luckily saw the police rescue boat approaching them. They were rescued and taken to the MV Butiama at the dock, where all survivors were gathered, then taken to Bugando Medical Centre (BMC). Those in serious health conditions were admitted and others discharged, including Mr Yusufu. He therefore joined his family on the same day, which was composed of parents and one kid by then. His life after MV Bukoba accident Four days later Mr Yusufu experienced mental disorders, was rushed back to BMC and got admitted for over two weeks. It was said that the mental picture of what he experienced during the accident kept on visiting him. “I really went crazy when I recalled the way I cheated death. We were about 20 staff in the ship (crew) but only three survived,” he said. Again, thinking on how his wife could survive with her one-month pregnancy (at the time of accident), giving birth in loneliness, also drove him crazy. Not only mental disorders but also Mr Yusufu experienced some eye and ear complications, which also made him spend a couple of days at BMC. His eyes turned red and itchy, with doctors telling him that it was because he spent some hours in the contaminated water. “I agreed with them because after MV Bukoba had overturned, the fuel tank burst and let the diesel get scattered all over. The contaminated water therefore hit on my eyes as I struggled opening them to see what could help me,” he said. The survivor recovered from ears and eyes complications and got discharged but continued attending the clinic for mental disorders. Losing the job Having failed to recover from mental problems for some months, Mr Yusufu opted for voluntary retirement since he could not continue travelling on the water. When he tried to hang on his job, he was tormented by the thoughts of the ordeal he suffered and was admitted to BMC again. He does not agree that the ill-fated ship capsized due to overloading. “How did it come all that way from Bukoba Port, an eight-hour journey if overloading was an issue? Despite my ignorance on shipping issues, my poor knowledge doesn’t accept this.” What Mr Yusufu thinks is that the captain failed to manage the corner and left MV Bukoba stuck while dipping. He is currently running a small kiosk at his home in Igogo area of the Mwanza City.