THE Mzumbe University, Dar es Salaam Campus College (MUDCC), gears up equipping students with skills and techniques to succeed in the labour market. The university has currently embarked on inviting recruitment firms to the campus to train the students on what they have to know and do while at the university and thereafter, in order for them to win the hearts of employers. Principal of the University’s Dar es Salaam Campus College, Prof Honest Ngowi, said the initiative was part of the university’s corporate strategic plan to be implemented for four years. “This initiative is meant to link students with the labour market. Apart from being in lecture halls, we also allow them to see what is out there,” Prof Ngowi, who is an economics professor, noted. Prof Ngowi noted further that he was sitting on different boards of directors and experienced what challenges facing job seekers. “One of the challenges is failure to write good curriculum vitae and not knowing job interview techniques. Graduates may have good certificates with high grades, but their CVs are not persuasive,” he explained. For this reason, he said, the campus had decided to invite experts from the labour market to take students through skills and techniques. Recently, the college invited CV People Tanzania, a recruiting firm and was looking forward to invite companies dealing with entrepreneurship activities, Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange and others for the same. “We are trying to expose them to the world and bring part of the world to the class, our students should get prepared early,” he stated. On her part, the Country Director of the CV People Tanzania, Ms Naike Moshi, counselled students to wisely use social media in building good image that could earn them opportunities in the future. “Use the social media to brand yourselves. Through social media you can make people know your strengths and talents while still at the university, thus attracting people to contact for offering opportunities,” she advised when making a presentation to the students on Wednesday. “Look at your strengths and build your brand. Get rid of sharing content that would make people perceive you negatively,” she told the undergraduate students in the city.