THE Netherlands Embassy in Tanzania has stressed the need for using artists’ works to showcase different visual storytelling in form of photograph, pictures and videos that raise awareness on climate crisis and push for immediate measures to address the global phenomenon. The Embassy’s First Secretary Economic Affairs, Mr Matthijs van Eeuwen said yesterday during the ongoing Innovation Week Tanzania which commenced in Dar es Salaam on May 17 this year, with the theme Innovation for a Resilient and Inclusive Digital Economy. According to him, they did an exhibition of 21 pictures, photographs and videos from Tanzania and three were selected for their impactful message. “Visuals influence behavior, they speak a lot on effects of climate change,” he said. On his part, a Tanzanian photographer, Imani Nsamile said he did photographing in Singida in 2016 when the region was facing acute shortage of water. He said the photograph portrayed different messages, including how children had to miss school so that they can go to fetch water and at the same time how women were spending most of their time to fetch water and not doing other development activities for their families. “The photograph also showed how water scarcity affected livestock because they were not getting proper feeding,” he said. He said through the photograph, policy makers and the public were made aware of how climate change was affecting them and took measures to address its effects.. In another development, a photographer from Netherlands, Kader Van Lohuizen said following adverse effects on the environment, he has been using photographs to show how rise in temperatures have been affecting some parts of the world. The Paris Agreement states that temperature should not rise for more than 2 degrees in the world. “If temperatures are not brought down in the coastal regions, it will be catastrophic,” he said. Explaining, he said in Indonesia, water was rising at 20 to 30 cm speed each year, making it a city on the brink of collapse, forcing the government to relocate the whole capital. In Bangladesh, he said there are many storms and cyclones with sea water not receding, thereby affecting land that is used for agriculture and contaminating drinking water. However, he noted that through visual arts the public is made aware and can take action immediately. Meanwhile, the Director of Nipe Ufagio, Anna Rocha said they have been working with people who pick up used bottles for recycling, thereby safeguarding the environment. “These are important people and their role to their environment should be appreciated, and if possible the government recognizes the work they do and employ them in the formal system,” she said.