THE government has assured the National Assembly that all promises made by top government leaders will be implemented. Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) David Silinde said that his office was currently in the final stages of compiling and preparing a plan on how to implement all the promises made by national leaders. “Starting next financial year, the government will allocate funds to ensure that all pledges made by senior leaders are implemented,” he said in response to a supplementary question from Aida Kenani (Nkasi North Chadema). In her question, the MP sought an answer from the government as to when the pledge of constructing the section of the road from Chala to Mparamawe in Nkasi would be fulfilled considering the promise was made the President of the Fifth Phase Government. Responding, the Deputy Minister explained that the sixth phase government was keen and has declared openly that everything would be taken on board for the developments of the people. The basic question was asked by Hassan Mtenga (Mtwara Urban-CCM) who wanted to know the government’s plan with regard to the construction Ufukoni, Magomeni and Shangani Wards road in Mtwara Mikindani Municipality to the tarmac level. Mr Silinde told the House that the government has continued to construct road infrastructure, including making repairs in various areas within Mtwara Mikindani Municipal Council. He said that in the 2017/2018 financial year, through Tanzania Strategic Cities Projects, the government constructed a 4.53 km of roads at tarmac level in Shangani ward, Mtwara Mikindani Municipality at the cost of 7.09bn/-. According to the Deputy Minister, in 2019/2020 financial year, through the Road Fund , the government constructed 0.85 km of roads at tarmac level in Shangani Ward at a cost of 232.98m/-. In addition, he said, in the 2020/2021 financial year, the government allocated 117.38m/- for the construction of a 0.55 km tarmac road at Maduka Makubwa Street, where the contractor is going on with the construction work. According to him, in the 2020/2021 financial year, 22.37 km long of roads were repaired and 1.3 kms are under construction at the cost of 74.19m/- at Fukoni and Magomeni Wards. The deputy minister pointed out that the government recognizes the rapid growth of Mtwara town and will continue to give priorities of constructing roads at tarmac level and improve water drainage systems depending on availability of funds