It was around 4pm, last Thursday when Mzee Kondo tragically met his death. The unlucky old man, riding on his motorcycle along the Segera-Tanga highway, was knocked to death by a speeding vehicle at Mzani wa Zamani area, a few kilometres from the port city in northeast Tanzania. The vehicle, a Toyota Landcruiser, veered off course, wheeling into the oncoming traffic lane as its driver desperately attempted to avoid a rear-end crash with an autorickshaw ahead of him that had stopped abruptly. The flying vehicle sadly came face to face against the ill-fated motorcyclist, who was coming from the opposite direction. Mzee Kondo was thrown high and landed a few meters away from the crash point, landing awkwardly on the side of the road. He died on the spot. In a blink of an eye, an innocent life was cruelly taken away. A tragic end of life for a father, grandpa and breadwinner. Mr Kondo’s motorcycle was completely destroyed in the crash. The wreckage had to be removed from underneath the vehicle. The autorickshaw driver, who was ferrying two passengers from the city to Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (TALIRI) Tanga station, was at fault for the deadly crash as he made a right turn without taking precaution about other motorists coming from behind. But the vehicle’s driver was partly to blame for the death of the motorcyclist. He was driving at very high speed. He could probably have avoided the crash or at least reduced the impact if he was driving at 50km/h speed. According to residents in the area, almost every two or three months a fatal crash occurs in the area. A worker at TALIRI recalled two similar crashes that claimed two lives in the area, including his neighbour’s son. “This area is very dangerous... fatal crashes occur here regularly, we have christened it a killer site, we often avoid crossing at the point, we always take a different path,” he says, seconded by his fellow worker at the centre. Looking to abate regular fatal road crashes in the KangeTanga section, authorities constructed road bumps at Jeshini area, close to Taliri centre, where similar measures should be taken to curb this scourge. Kondo’s tragedy occurred at the time when Tanzania and the rest of the world were commemorating the 6th United Nations (UN) Global Road Safety Week, marked annually between May 17-23. The main objective is to mobilize leaders and communities to work together to make roads safer, in the lead up to the launch of the Global Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021–2030. Nationally the event was held in Dodoma City whereas road safety stakeholders used the opportunity to increase public awareness on the scourge of road crashes, which is the leading cause of death for children and young people aged between 5 and 29 years. In his message, WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti recalled that the WHO African Region with only 3% of registered vehicles globally, records 20 per cent of global road traffic deaths, with nearly 272, 000 Africans dying on our roads each year – 40 per cent of these casualties are pedestrians. “Speed is a leading risk factor for road traffic deaths and injuries,” says Dr Moeti. Evidence shows that lowering speed limits in urban areas reduces the risk of fatalities and keeps vulnerable road users safe, including pedestrians, cyclists, children, elders and people with disabilities. Overall, an increase in average speed of a kilometre per hour translates to a three per cent higher risk of a crash and a four per cent to five per cent increase in fatalities. Most countries have set a default limit of 50 kilometres per hour in urban areas but experts say on roads with high pedestrian and cyclist traffic, this is inadequate to save lives. Globally, WHO, the United Nations, philanthropic and civil society organisations supporting local governments are leading a movement to reduce speed limits to 30 kilometres per hour in highdensity urban settings. “Countries in Europe and North America have successfully enforced these limits in selected urban areas leading to fewer crashes and deaths,” says Dr Moeti. In African countries such as Botswana, Malawi, Namibia and Zambia, the advocacy of local leaders has led to legislation to implement 30 kilometre per hour speed limits around schools. “These are positive steps to protect children,” commends the WHO Regional Director while urging other countries to take similar measures. According to Dr Moeti Africa is still faced with many challenges, including building adequate infrastructure to support policies, strengthening multi-sectoral collaboration and gaining political commitment. He says awareness-raising to make sure members of the public know, understand and act in line with new regulations is another challenge that needs to be adequately addressed. The WHO, he notes, has been supporting countries to overcome these challenges, to build capacities to implement evidence-based solutions and to enhance data quality for better monitoring and planning. “We are also collaborating with partners to mobilize financial and human resources to make our roads safer,” insists Dr Moeti. Over the past 10 years, the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011–2020, has garnered political commitment and led to the development of evidencebased interventions to save lives and prevent injuries. Building on this success, the UN General Assembly has called for a second Decade of Action for Global Road Safety 2021–2030 with a goal to halve road traffic deaths. “Achieving this ambitious target will require urgent action by governments, civil society organizations and international partners,” says Dr Moeti. He calls on leaders and communities to advocate for safer speed limits to save lives and to make our communities healthier, greener and more livable. In Tanzania, for the last five years, the Coalition of Civil Society Organizations for Road Safety has been orchestrating legal and policy reforms, highlighting gaps in the existing Road Traffic legislation that link directly to current high rate of road carnages. In 2018, the coalition issued a Position Paper detailing on existing legal gaps related to five key risk factors of speeding, helmet use, seat belt use, drink driving and use of child restraints, with mobile phone use while driving also added. Speed Speed is the leading cause of road crashes, yet the current RTA covers only a few areas for the purpose of controlling speed. The legislation specifies only a few classes of vehicles and in some geographical places. In Tanzania, there are three general speed limits stipulated by law: according to Section 51 of the Road Traffic Act of 1973, the speed limit for vehicles with more than 3.5 tonnes is 80 km/h. For trucks and buses, the general speed limit on all roads, except on urban roads, is 80 km/h. In built-up areas, the speed limit is according to the Act 50 km/h for all vehicles but may occasionally locally be set at 60 km/h. The recommendation by road safety advocates is that the law should cover all types of vehicles not only commercial, public service and heavy-duty vehicles for effective control of speed. Drink-driving Drinking-driving is another thorn in the flesh for road safety stakeholders in the country. The blood alcohol content limit provided by RTA is a cause for concern among road safety stakeholders as it exceeds the international and best practice standards. It is therefore proposed that the law should lower the limit from 0.08g/dl to 0.05g/dl for at least an expert driver and distinguish between the experienced and non-experienced driver ‘for whom the blood level should not go beyond 0.02g/dl.’ Helmet use It is estimated that 22 percent of deaths of drivers can be accounted to two and three wheeler vehicles in the country, with the most serious and fatal injuries involving motorcycle riders said to be those inflicted to the head and neck. As a way of avoiding head injuries and deaths resulting from motorcycle crashes, the wearing of helmets cannot be overemphasized. But the RTA provides mandatory helmet wearing to drivers only. The law, thus, needs to be amended to compel motorcycle passengers to wear helmets and clearly stipulate the required standard of helmets. Seatbelt wearing The RTA on the other hand does not meet the international threshold for laws on fastening of seat belts, with only drivers and front seat passengers compelled to belt up. It is important that the law requires all occupants of a motor vehicle occupying a sitting position to wear a seat belt correctly as well as impose mandatory wearing of child restraints, says Mr Jones John, Coordinator of Legal Development Programme with Ekama Foundation. Road safety advocates are also calling for the introduction of a child restraints legislation that will make it mandatory use of child restraints, which function as a seat belt for minors. A shared concern among road safety stakeholders is the protracted process to amend the outdated Road Traffic Act, 1973