THE process of admitting the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) into the East African Community (EAC) is well on course. Fielding questions from journalists here yesterday, EAC Secretary General Peter Mathuki revealed that he had written letters to the six partner states to nominate individuals who would feature in the verification mission to the sub-Saharan Africa’s largest country. “They (mission) are to start their work next month to ascertain if the country really meets the threshold of joining the community,” clarified the EAC Secretary General. Dr Mathuki, on the other hand expressed his optimism on the prospects of having the DRC as the latest entrant to the regional economic community. According to the EAC boss, the country had all it takes to be part of the Community, adding that the remaining six Partner States stand to benefit from its presence. The 21st Ordinary Summit of the EAC Heads of State held in February directed the Council of Ministers to undertake the verification mission to Kinshasa and report to the next summit, while the application of Somalia that has been pending since 2012, was again pushed to the back burner. The 1999 EAC Treaty gives conditions for admission including adherence to good governance, democracy, rule of law, observance of human rights and social justice, potential members’ contribution to strengthening integration; geographical proximity to and interdependence between it and the partners; establishment and maintenance of a market- driven economy; and social and economic policies being compatible with those of the Community. Article 3 of the treaty of the establishment of the EAC states that Partner States may, upon such terms and in such manner as they may determine, together negotiate with any foreign country the granting of membership to, or association of that country with, the Community or its participation in any of the activities of the Community. Subject to such provision, the matters to be taken into account by the partner states in considering the application by a foreign country to become a member of, be associated with, or participate in any of the activities of the Community, shall among other things include the foreign country’s acceptance of the Community as set out in the Treaty. It must adhere to universally acceptable principles of good governance, democracy, the rule of law, observance of human rights and social justice; potential contribution to the strengthening of integration within the East African region; geographical proximity to and inter-dependence between it and the Partner States as well as the establishment and maintenance of a market driven economy.