CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) said on Friday that the new party chairperson President Samia Suluhu Hassan will continue to implement the vision and work started by the fifth phase government under the administration of fallen Dr John Magufuli. The CCM National Vice Chairman (Mainland), Philip Mangula made the remarks in Dodoma at the official opening of the CCM extraordinary congress which endorsed President Samia as the party’s national chairperson. President Samia is taking over the post after the death of the fifth phase President Dr Magufuli who was also the party chairman. Mr Mangula who chaired the congress said that, the Party’s Central Committee in its meeting held on April 29 this year proposed the name of President Samia to be endorsed as new CCM chairperson. He explained that during the 2015 General Election, the party’s presidential candidate the late Dr Magufuli and his running mate Samia travelled across the country to market the CCM Manifesto which could be implemented for the period of five years. “Dr Magufuli and Samia did a great job which was proved by voters during the 2020 General Election where the party won a landslide victory by scooping 85 per cent of the presidential voters,” he noted. Mr Mangula also said that parliamentary contestants also markerted the party’s manifesto and more than 90 per cent of the candidates retained their positions. “The two (things) have built respect of the country and our party,” he stressed. He noted that President Samia had done a great job at the national and international level, thus the congress members have the responsibility to endorse her so as to continue with the work started in the second term of the Fifth phase government. The former Deputy Secretary General of CCM (Mainland) Mr Rodrick Mpogolo called upon members of the national congress to endorse the proposed name of the national chairperson who would lead the party for the remaining four years. He said that the new chairperson was expected to console the party leaders and all members after the death of Dr Magufuli. “The new chairperson will have the responsibility of ensuring that CCM continues to remain a strong institution which produces leaders with experience and ability of leading our nation,” he emphasized. He noted that, although Dr Magufuli had gone, his vision, mission and thoughts would be honoured and continue to be implemented by CCM for the benefits of all citizens. Mr Mpogolo further said that, the late Magufuli fought for the country’s economic development and enabled the nation to attain middle income status ahead of time. “He brought huge changes within the party in terms of structure and performance which strengthened it (the party) economically to enable it to run its activities. He has left indelible mark to the government and the country in general,” he added.