Infinity Real Estate Dodoma and Letshego Bank have launched a new joint venture where the bank will finance various customers that are receiving services from the real estate company. Speaking during the launch, the Infinity Real Estate Business Development Manager, Lulu Nzalalila said the new development will ensure more customers access professional services offered by his company. “Most people think that professional services from a real estate like ours are expensive but this is not the case, this new development will cater for different clients with different incomes who will be advised accordingly when they apply for the funding,” she said during the signing that was done by the Infinity Real Estate Dodoma Managing Director, Tumaini Mtei and the Letshego Bank Commercial Director, Dr. Goodluck Meena. The Business Development Manager said among services to be financed by the bank include, from scratch construction, land development, finishing and renovations. “A lot of people have land but they lack finances to develop and put up something. We will offer different packages that will cut across different incomes and the repayment arrangement will also be fair to the customers so that as many people as possible can own homes and property,” she said. She further noted that the new product will ensure the customers are able to access different solutions like building materials that are pocket friendly and added that it was high time that Tanzanians embraced mortgage as this is one way of creating many home owners as witnessed in most countries. “We want to complement government efforts in ensuing most Tanzanians own property as this will help them get more income and also become loan able to most financial institutions,” she said and urged Tanzanians to embrace professionals in construction to ensure quality. On her part the Letshego Bank Business Development Manager, Ruth Mpangala, said they were delighted to be part of the joint venture with Infinity Real Estate Dodoma and urged customers to take advantage of the new campaign to get financing for their projects. “This is a great initiative and as Letshego we will ensure our clients get the best services and the repayment arrangements will be favourable across all incomes to ensure as many people as possible in Dodoma benefit from the new product. She said one of the main requirements is a reliable income no matter how much it is as there will be various packages to suit various groups. The clients will be introduced to the bank by Infinity Real Estate Company Limited. 