DODOMA City Mayor, Prof Davis Mwamfupe has urged Tanzanians to fully utilize the socio-economic opportunities available in the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) as the regional bloc commemorates its 40th anniversary. Opening a dialogue here yesterday, Prof Mwamfupe said that it is high time the public is well informed about the opportunities available in the regional bloc so that they can explore them for improved socio-welfare. “The SADC commemoration should be used as a platform to raise awareness to youth, women and business community about opportunities available in the regional bloc and how they can effectively utilize them,” said Prof Mwamfupe. He said business communities should be supported to grab the opportunities by linking them with relevant authorities and organs within SADC member states so that they can make business deals. On his part, University of Dodoma (UDOM) Vice Chancellor, Prof Faustine Bee stressed on the need for concerted efforts in ensuring that the SADC core values are observed among member states in order to achieve economic development, peace and security, growth, alleviate poverty, enhance the standard and quality of people’s lives. Prof Bee said it is high time youngsters who are not aware of SADC be informed about the bloc, available opportunities and Tanzania’s contribution to the socio-economic and liberation struggles of some member states. He said UDOM will make full use of academic opportunities available in the bloc as it as among the universities which benefit from student’s exchange programme between Tanzania and Mozambique. Prof Bee said they are eyeing for more foreign students to be enrolled at UDOM as it is among the benchmarks for its desire to become among the top 20 best universities in Africa. The dialogue moderator, Prof Donald Mpanduji underscored the need to celebrate progress that has been made in the past 40 years without losing sight of the critical challenges that lie ahead. “Going forward, we must collectively and decisively address challenges related to climate change; youth unemployment and gender inequality; infrastructure development; industrial development and trade; peace, security and stability; among others,” he said. He said the reflections should look at strategic direction to address challenges and chart the path for inclusive and sustainable development.