IN a bid to boost tourism, the Ministry for Natural Resources and Tourism in collaboration with the Katavi Regional leadership prepared a ten-year strategic plan which has greatly helped to promote Katavi National Park.  Katavi National Park is the Tanzania’s third largest national park and it is in the heart of one of the biggest and richest wildlife areas in the country.  Some of its ongoing strategies include announcing the attractions within the park including the abundance of Hippos, Lions and white giraffes. The list also highlighted the government advertising them through social media sites (Instagram, Facebook, Twitter etc.) as well as preparing videos and several films. The statement was made in the National Assembly on Tuesday, by Deputy Minister of Tourism and Natural Resources Ms Mary Masanja, while responding to Martha Mariki (Special Seat-CCM), who wanted to know the government’s plans in promoting Katavi National Park. In response, the Deputy Minister said the government will also focus more on improving road infrastructure within the parks to facilitate access and smooth transportation of tourists. She said that the government, will also advertise  the parks through a special tourism channel “Tanzania Safari Channel” that concentrates on promoting tourism activities for people residing in and outside Tanzania to attract them to the country. Her list also had a strategy of organizing familiarization trips to journalists, tourism stakeholders with the aim of giving them the opportunity to understand the tourist attractions and promote them locally and abroad, saying: “The ministry is also creating a place for affordable accommodation for domestic and foreign visitors…and the government also invites investors to build internationally recognized tourist  camps, and international lodges, where four investment areas have so far been identified.” At the same time, the government will continue promoting all the National Parks through various local and international exhibitions to attract more tourists and investors. “It is the government's belief that the ongoing efforts to promote the existing attractions in Katavi National Park will continue to bear fruit and thus provide the people of Katavi and the nation at large with the benefits it deserves,” she pointed out.