CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Permanent Secretary, Daniel Chongolo, has directed Ministers from three ministries to focus on how to solve challenges facing the public in their 2021/22 budgets. Mr Chongolo issued the directive at the party's headquarters in Dodoma, while addressing a news conference for the first time since he was appointed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan to replace Dr Bashiru Ally as the party's Secretary General. According to him, after a few days that the new party's Secretariat had stayed in office, it realised serious issues bedeviling Tanzanians, especially those found in pledges outlined in the 2020/2025 party's manifesto. Mr Chongolo named the three ministries as the ministry of Energy, Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlement Development. In the ministry of Energy, the party directed that it should ensure that the Rural Energy Agency (REA) makes sure that the remaining villages which are yet to be connected to the national grid are connected. Mr Chongolo further asked the ministry to take appropriate disciplinary and legal actions against officials of the Tanzania Electric Company Limited (TANESCO) who led to the technical mishap in the system and plagued the whole country in darkness for three consecutive days. In the mess-up, there was a struggle from the public to buy LUKU tokens, forcing people to directly go to vending stations to access electricity services. The party further directed the ministry to ensure that the ongoing project at the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP) is completed on time (June 2022). On the Agriculture docket, Mr Chongolo directed the ministry to ensure that in the next financial budget, the pledge to have 1,200,000 hectors of Irrigation farming as enshrined in the party's manifesto was clearly addressed. He directed that irrigation schemes should be fully implemented to ensure that the country has food security. The CCM Secretary General further directed the Ministry of Land and Human Settlement Development to address disputes and as ensure that all land owners have tittle deeds. In addressing the disputes, he directed that any projected being implemented in the country must timely pay compensations to residents they relocate.