DEPUTY Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Pauline Gekul has defended the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the Tanzania Olympic Association (TOC), saying they do not do amendments to constitution to favour leaders in power. This was said by minister Gekul while answering a question from Ravia Idarus Faina (Makunduchi -CCM). She told the National Assembly here yesterday that any constitutional change must meet the registration requirements supervised by the Registrar of Sports Associations and Clubs in the country including good governance and term of office under the Tanzania Sports Council (NSC). The MP had wanted to know why Sports Associations including the TFF and TOC have been changing their constitutions with the aim of protecting incumbent leaders and preventing other Tanzanians from running for those offices. Responding to the question, the deputy minister said that sports associations in Tanzania are registered with the National Sports Council Act No. 12 of 1967 and its amendment No. 6 of 1971 and Act No. 3 of 2018 as well as the Registrar’s Regulations of 1999. She said that despite the need to change constitutions for the parties, they could not come into force until are re-registered by the Registrar of Sports Associations, who reviews them to see if the changes were in line with policy, rules and regulations governing sports and other sports laws of the land. “If the registrar discovers an issue slotted in the constitution, is of no interest to the party and the nation, including matters of good governance; The Registrar has been legally empowered to refuse such registration in accordance with the Registration Rules of 1999, section 11 (3) (a) and (b),” Gekul said. The deputy minister concluded, therefore, that both TFF and TOC have not changed their constitutions with the aim of protecting incumbent leaders. She insisted that any constitutional change must meet the registration criteria administered by the registrar of sports associations and clubs in the country including good governance and term of office under the Tanzania Sports Council.