THE National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT) has stressed on the need for finance professionals working in the financial sector to develop the right skills to deal with challenges in the field. The remarks were made by Director of Administration and Human Resources Management, Mr Novati Mfalamagoha at the official opening of a training on Diploma in International Financial Reporting Standards (DipIFRS) to 20 NAOT auditors in Dar es Salaam on Monday. “The five weeks training is designed specifically for the NAOT auditors to provide a comprehensive understanding of the IFRS,” he said. He emphasized the need to observe a high level of commitment during the period of training to ensure that they grasp practical knowledge shared by facilitators on DipIFRS. Mr Mfalamagoha said apart from passing the international examination, they will have to seat at the end of the course before being awarded a Diploma, because it was equally important to be able to apply the knowledge on IFRS to their daily practical responsibilities as auditors. “I am expecting you all to have a focus on what is the reason for you being here, and let each one of you aspire to get out of the training venue as a transformed auditor,” he noted. On his part, the Head of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Tanzania, Jenard Lazaro said the qualification to be gained on the course will enable the 20 finance professionals to develop knowledge and understanding about the details of IFRS, with emphasis on how to apply them, as well as the concepts and principles which underpin them. It should be noted that ACCA works very closely with NAOT on Public Finance Management, and through this initiative, the organization’s capabilities have transformed. Speaking at the event, a Partner from Ark Associates Limited who are facilitators of the programme, Godfrey Temba said the goal of the training programme was to enable NAOT, their partner to successfully achieve unprecedented technical and practical thinking through IFRS solutions. “This integrated technical and practical path will connect you to the resources needed to develop your expertise, grow your career, increase transparency and maximize trust through financial reporting,” he explained. The Director of ACCA Africa, Jamil Ampomah said, “Our diploma aims to offer a fast and efficient solution to help finance professionals like you develop a strong working knowledge of the area,” ACCA is a thriving global community of 227,000 members and 544,000 future members, based in 176 countries and regions that uphold the highest professional and ethical values.