THE Ministry of Defense and National Service on Friday requested a budget of 2.358trn/- for the fiscal year 2021/22, seeking to strengthen the army with modern technologies and military readiness. This request if approved by the parliament will slightly increase the budget from the 2.141trn/- initially allocated to the Ministry during the ending financial year. Minister for Defence and National Service, Elias Kwandikwa said Tanzania’s territory remains safe but there have been threats on its 1,536-kilometer-long southern border. The border between Tanzania and other southern African countries, Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia has been on spotlight since ASWJ militants carried out seven attacks in Tanzanian villages. “The security situation at the border is generally calm. However, there security threats due to the presence of the Ansar Al Sunnah Wa Jamaah (AASWJ) terrorist group in Cabo Delgado State, Mozambique. The state share border with Mtwara Region in Tanzania,” he said. The militants carried out attacks in several villages in Mtwara that led to death and destruction of properties. “The government deployed security details in a move to strengthen protection at the border,” he said. Priorities listed by the government in the new budget includes advancing efforts in resolving challenges within and the neighboring country borders. In the northern border with Kenya and Uganda, for instance, the key challenge according to the government is endless illegal immigrants notably from Ethiopia, Eritrea and Somalia. The border is further characterized with uncontrolled pastoralists from the neighboring country who are increasingly pushing their livestock into the country's protected areas. “Despite the eastern border (Kenya, Mozambique, Seychelles and Comoro) remaining relatively calm. Illegal fishing in the Indian Ocean, smuggling and use of illegal immigration routes, drug and human trafficking is disturbing,” the minister noted. He said the ministry will prioritize improving working environment, housing and strengthening access to appropriate services and basic requirements for soldiers and civil servants. The Ministry will continue to build the capacity of the Nation Service with agricultural tools and equipment in order to be self-sufficient in food production. “We want to improve infrastructures in the force so that it can accommodate more young people, provide training on patriotism, resilience, national unity and work skills,” he said.