KAGERA region faces a critical shortage of health experts in different cadres, a situation which negatively affects smooth implementation of health programmes and provision of services, it has been disclosed. Kagera Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Professor Faustin Kamuzora, explained that out of the needed 4,448 health experts those available were 2,151 implying 48 per cent of the region’s requirements. The shortage included Welfare Development Officers, Nutrition Officers, Nurses, Medical Doctors and Specialist doctors. “As an alternative strategy we have recommended graduates (youths) in different health cadres to be employed on temporary basis and who will be paid allowances using the Medical Contribution Fund (MCF),” he said. Kagera region recorded impressive performance against malaria through various interventions, including distribution of Insecticide Treated Nets (ITN) to the people. According to the National Malaria Health Survey (NMHS), malaria prevalence in Kagera region had been considerably reduced from 41.1 per cent during 2015/2016 to 15.4 per cent during 2017/2018. However, more efforts are still needed to ensure that malaria is completely eliminated. Prof Kamuzora explained that between November 2017 to November and last year, over   two million   Insecticide Treated Nets (ITNs) were distributed to various vulnerable groups. At least 1,401,842 ITNs were distributed to primary school pupils, 402,110 to pregnant women and 346,416 to children. “Continuous efforts are being taken to educate people on the importance of using Insecticide Treated Nets (ITN) and the government is keen to save lives of poor Tanzanians through construction of health facilities. We must ensure that malaria is   totally eliminated,” he said, insisting that “This is possible ….everyone should play his/her part in this important exercise. Kagera region with a population of about 3.2 million (2012 Population Census Projections) has a total of 336   health facilities including 17 hospitals, 38 health Centres and 281 dispensaries. He appealed to residents in the region to ensure that pregnant women attend clinic regularly to get necessary medical counseling. “Better health of a population is central to the development of a nation since a healthy population lives longer and is more productive and contributes more to a nation’s economy,” he said  He added: “Effective public health system from the grassroots level is important in providing care for the sick and putting in place measures that promote preventive services of diseases.”  In spite of the fact that various efforts have been made to extend primary health care coverage, particularly in rural areas, the scarcity of economic resources impedes the implementation of many health programmes.  In Tanzania, more than 80 per cent of malaria cases are linked to infection with Plasmodium falciparum. The species is dangerous for pregnant woman as it typically invades large numbers of erythrocytes, causing severe anemia, which is crucial in pregnancy.  Data shows that lack of affordable, quality health care continues to trap many in poverty. Globally, as many as 100 million people a year are pushed into poverty due to high health care costs and about 30 per cent of households in Africa and Asia have to borrow money or sell assets to pay for health services.