FORMER employee of the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) Dr Abraham Muro has lost an appeal over his demand to have his retirement benefits settled by the Public Service Pensions Fund (PSPF) instead of the Parastatal Pension Fund (PPF). This followed the decision by the Court of Appeal to strike out the appeal he had lodged against the declaration of the High Court’s Labour Division that confirmed that Dr Muro, the appellant, had retired under PPF social scheme and not the PSPF. Justices Rehema Mkuye, Jacobs Mwambegele and Mary Levira ruled in favour of National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) and the Attorney General, the respondents, after observing that the appeal in question was incompetent. They noted some defects on the certificate of delay, one of crucial documents in the record of appeal and rejected the invitation by the counsel for the appellant. “We refrain from applying the overriding objective principle to spare the invalid certificate of delay and proceed with hearing of the appeal as pleaded by counsel for the appellant. Consequently, we strike out the appeal for being accompanied by defective certificate of delay, rendering it time barred,” they ruled. Certificate of delay is a document in a form of letter issued by the registrar of the High Court to exclude the period or number of days in which the appellants is waiting to be supplied with copies of proceedings, exhibits, judgment and drawn orders before lodging the appeal to the appropriate court. The appellant, a retired officer, who was initially employed by the defunct East African Community and later by the NIMR, unsuccessfully lodged a labour complaint before the High Court of Tanzania (Labour Division) in Mwanza. He prayed for payment of all retirement benefit, general damages arising from loss of legitimate expectation in life after retirement from employment and for breach of trust, breach of fiduciary duty, contractual and statutory duties. The appellant also pushed for an order, compelling the NIMR to compensate him 40m/- for unlawful deductions of salary and failure to remit statutory deductions to what he claimed was proper social security scheme. He requested for refund of 477,311/80 plus 30 percent interest of the money deducted from his salaries from September 1981 to June 1999, costs of the suit and the interest thereon and any other relief as the court may deem just to grant. The gist of the appellant’s complaint before the High Court was that his contributions which were deducted from his salaries were submitted to PPF instead of PSPF. He claimed that initially he was employed by the defunct EAC from March 30, 1976. Following the collapse of the EAC in 1977, the appellant worked with the government under the Ministry of Health. In 1980, the government established the NIMR, transferring the appellant to the medical research institute as a research officer from with effect fromJuly, 1981. All employees who were working under NIMR as a matter of law were subjected to PPF membership as it was a public corporation. It is on record that from 1981 to 1983 the appellant’s monthly deductions were remitted to PPF. When he was given an option to choose whether he wished to be a member of PPF or Government Pension Scheme, he chose the latter. However, the appellant expected his monthly pension contributions to be remitted to PSPF as he alleged to have had chosen to continue with the contract he had with the EAC under which his contributions were being remitted. Soon before his retirement, the appellant came to realise that his monthly contributions were being remitted to PPF instead of PSPF which he alleged to have opted to use when he started working with NIMR. The dispute between the appellant and NIMR was referred to the Commission for Mediation and Arbitration (CMA) for reconciliation but in vain. Thereafter, the appellant filed unsuccessfully the labour dispute at the High Court. In its decision, the High Court declared that the appellant was entitled to retire under PPF arrangements and not PSPF because he was not a member of PSPF. The NIMR in assistance with PPF were ordered to pay the appellant all the retirement benefits