WITH just one round left for the Mainland Women’s League to conclude; the two giants club Simba Queens and Yanga Princess have been in an intense battle for this seasons’ title. Despite Simba leading the league with 51 points after 19 games, Yanga are trailing them by a single after collecting 50 points in 19 outings, meaning the race will go down to wire. Their respective final matches will decide who will be crowned the champion this season although going by their recent record and form, Simba are slightly favourites to retain the title they won last season. In their final matches, Simba will play against Baobab Queens, while Yanga will face Alliance Girls. In their previous games last Thursday, both teams showed their eagerness to claim the title after registering massive victories against their opposing teams. Simba Queens at the home venue -- Mo Simba Arena in Dar es Salaam smashed Mlandizi Queens 4-0. Simba’s goals were netted by Opa Clement in the 12th minute, Mawete Musolo who scored a brace in the 51st and 61st minutes before Jackline Albert completed their goal festival in the 67th minute of the game. At the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Yanga immersed Tanzania Street Children Sports Academy (TSC) Queens 7-0. It was indeed an interesting encounter that showed the prowess of the Jangwani Princess, as they displayed their superiority over TSC. Yanga’s joyful moment was colored with a brace from Aisha Masaka and more other goals from Clara Luvanga, Aisha Juma, Aniella Uwimama, Philomena Kizimana and Fatuma Bashiri. Other games played on Thursday saw JKT Queens beating Alliance Girls 3-2, which enabled JKT Queens to cling the third place of the log with 45 points after 19 outings. Alliance Girls are fixed sixth on the log after pocketing 27 points from 19 matches. At the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma, Baobab Queens drew 1-1 with Tanzanite SC. The results have offered the host (Baobab) a lifeline to remain at the seventh place tied in points with their guests Tanzanite after each collecting 21 points in 19 games.