THE ministry of Works and Transport has outlined its key priorities in its ambitious 3.7tri/- it plans to spend in recurrent and development expenditures during 2021/2022 fiscal year, among them repairing the ailing Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). The Minister for Works and Transport, Engineer Leonard Chamriho, tabled the budget in the National Assembly on Monday requesting lawmakers to approve 1.6tri/- for the works sector and another 2.1tri/- for the transport sector. He said that during the 2021/2022 Financial year, his ministry was focusing on the implementation of the third Five- Year Development Plan (FYDP III) and building the competitive economy through industrialization for the interest of peoples’ development. He said the ministry would implement key flagship projects and expected to bring positive results in other economic sectors. He outlined the priorities as implementation of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) Projects, revamping ATCL as well as Rehabilitation and building of ships in major lakes countrywide. Others are rehabilitation of railway infrastructure, expansion of ports, improving services in the aviation, surface and marine sectors and construction and rehabilitation of roads, bridges and ferries. Eng. Chamriho further said that the government would equally continue with construction of airports countrywide including Msalato Airport in Dodoma as well as construction of Dodoma inner and outer ring roads. “Other priorities that we plan to implement include projects outlined in various speeches delivered by top leaders as well as those which development partners have already pledged to provide funding in collaboration with the government through Counterpart Fund,’’ henoted. On repairing ATCL, the minister said due to challenges caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the state carrier had been adversely affected and that during the 2021/22 fiscal years the government was doing everything to clear all outstanding debts within the company in order to make itdeliver to expectations of customers. “The government is aware of higher operational costs at ATCL which has been causing loss to the company, therefore, we are taking various steps to reduce operational costs as well as clearing debts,’’ added Eng. Chamriho. He said that one of the aircrafts owned by ATCL—Dash 8 Q300 had been transported to Malta for major repairs (6C Check) and that its repairs would be completed in June 2021. “This will make ATCL have a total number of 12 aircrafts which will increase services in airports thathave between 30 and 50 passengers,’’ he noted. During the 2021/2022 Financial Year, the ministry plans to construct 10 airports in Geita, Iringa, Ruvuma, Lindi, Simiyu, Lake Manyara, Tanga, Moshi, Lindi and Mara. Also the government has allocated about 32.2bn/- for the construction of the much awaited Msalato Airport, in the country’s capital, Dodoma. Part of that money, he said, would be spent in payment of compensation to people who will be affected by the implementation of the project.