WHEN I was growing up, there were so many things that my parents taught me in efforts of making sure I grow up with manners, kuishi na adabu. One of them was slumping when sitting, because this will cause the blood pressure in my father’s veins to go on overdrive, and the next thing I knew was a well-aimed slap, kibao kitakatifu yaani… “acha kukaa kizembe!”…. he would tell me. My mother on the other hand was disgusted when I dragged my feet when walking, kusema ukweli hapo hakuachi, she will lay a well-organised ambush, and the beating that you will get will ensure you walk as if you are climbing stairs for the rest of the day. You see, all this was in the process of bringing us up, because I saw it as an unfair treatment at that time, but I later realised that it is because they had my best interest at heart, walifanya kwa upendo mkubwa sana, and I thank them for that every day. But if these two habits brought the wrath of their fury on my innocent self, spitting in public was like slapping my dad in his sleep, because what could follow was cold blood murder, atakutengeneza hata kama ni mbele ya watu. My mum believed in proper hygiene, and she always told us that spitting in public was uncouth and disgusting, telling us that if we really had to spit, we should make sure we are not in the company of anyone, yaani fanya hivyo ukiwa peke yako. Sasa when I see someone doing the things my mum warned me against when I was still young, I really wonder whether they had parents to show them what is right and what is wrong, sijui kama walipata malezi mazuri. I know there are numerous individuals out there like me, for whom spitting in public is unpleasant, unacceptable and antisocial, najua wapo ambao wanakwazika na tabia hizi. It is a filthy habit that can spread germs and cause health issues. Unfortunately, spitting is a means of showing off in today’s so called civilised society, hapo unashindwa kuelewa ni wapi tunakoelekea. In my limited research, I have observed that there is a link between bad manners and spitting. People who have terrible manners tend to spit more, hawajui kwamba the spit carries bacteria, which once in public can harm each one of us, sidhani kama ni lazima uende shule ili ujue hilo. Moreover, spitting can cause great damage to public property and hence it can be considered a deliberate action to damage public or private property, hiyo haina tofauti na vandalism, nawaambia ukweli. There is someone I met some time back, mtu mzima na ndevu zake, but he was spitting as if his life depended on it, right in front of people, yaani utadhani ni mja mzito! Yaani nilimshangaa sana, that is why I thought to myself that the government should make a point of banning this habit, kweli kabisa, ukikamatwa unalimwa fine, just like urinating in public. With spitting in public places becoming an offence, I think people will start to react more responsibly. If a rule is strictly imposed, I think people will adhere to it, kwa sababu watu wengine hadi wawekewe sheria ndio wabadilike. Largely taboo in ‘Westernized’ nations, spitting in public remains common in many parts of the world, hapa kwetu ndio usiseme, very uncouth behavior. Public health campaigns ‘beyond the West’ tend to stress that spitting in public spreads diseases and is also, in essence, disgusting, uncivilized and deviant. That is why there was a time in my daytime dreams, I imagine that if my mother happened to be the president, she would go on the warpath against this sick habit, nawaambia asingewaacha. Apart from spitting in public, as disgusting as it is, you find another person, mtu anaonekana ana heshima zake, but he blows his nose in public, mucus snorting loudly as if he is in the comfort of his home. Doing this in public may disgust the people around you, yaani tuache utani, it is irritating. Sawa, mucus is probably a good thing for your bodies, but how you choose to deal with its excesses in public is the problem. Huwa nawaambia wanangu, when you are at pain to clear the accumulation of phlegm in your nasal passages, use a tissue or hanky, do not snort and swallow your dirt when in the company of other people. It is gross and disrespectful. Sijui kama mnanielewa, but to say the truth, there are things which people do deliberately, which can drive you up the wall, yaani vitabia vya ajabu ajabu tu, hivi mna nini nyie!? Wengine yaani when you see them picking their noses in public you will think there is something they are looking for in the nose, yaani mtu anachokonoa pua balaa…it is bad manners doing it in public, kama mnabisha basi. Why people pick their nose likely differs from person to person, hiyo inaeleweka. Noses that are dry or overly moist may be irritating. A quick pick can relieve some discomfort, but it depends where you are doing it from, sio mbele za watu. In rare situations, nose picking is a compulsive, repetitive behavior. This condition, called rhinotillexomania, often accompanies stress or anxiety and other habits like nailbiting or scratching. For people with this condition, nose picking can briefly ease anxiety, mkisoma mtaelewa. But most people who pick their nose, including those who do it in the car, do so out of habit, not compulsion….kusema ukweli inakera sana. Not only are people spreading their own bacteria and viruses onto everything they touch after a bout of digging for gold - but you also transfer germs from your fingertips into the nose, which is the exact opposite of what you want. These are things which we should teach our children at an early age to avoid, because in the long run you are teaching them proper manners, watawashukuru baadae kama wana akili mukichwa, nawaambia kweli.