IN honouring the vision and leadership codes of former Prime Minister, the late Edward Sokoine, the government has reassured of its commitment to continue fighting corruption, smuggling, embezzlement of public funds and abuse of offices among civil servants. The commitment was reiterated on Thursday by Vice- President Dr Phillip Mpango while gracing the symposium organised by the Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), held to honour the legacy of the former Premier. According to Dr Mpango, the government under the administration of President Samia Suluhu Hassan would have no mercy on corrupt officials because they are dragging behind national development. “I want to assure Tanzanians that the government is very serious on this, we are taking all measures to curb corruption practices, the same as to what the late Sokoine was standing for,” said the Vice-President. Dr Mpango went on to describe the late Sokoine as a patriotic leader who dedicated all his efforts towards pushing for equal sharing of natural resources for national development. “The late Sokoine is also remembered for his tireless efforts on solving challenges facing Tanzanians, a spirit that has to be maintained by all government leaders,” he explained, noting that his death was a loss to the whole nation. He noted that it was Sokoine who came up with the idea of the country having a specialised university for agriculture and livestock studies, for the sake of increasing productivity from the sector. “This was the reason behind establishment of SUA that was officially launched on September 26, 1984, just six months after his death, the government treasures his contribution to national development,” said the Vice President. Earlier, the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako said the late Sokoine was a champion of the government’s investment on agriculture and livestock development. She said her ministry will maintain the vision of the late Sokoine by providing full support on improving agriculture, livestock keeping, fisheries, natural resources and tourism. “Under the ministry of education, SUA has continued to produce competent manpower to support agriculture and allied sector,” she explained. She said current leaders are supposed to emulate Sokoine’s example who created history in the nation that made many people remember him.