SIMBA are determined to produce a remarkable comeback as they host South Africa’s Kaizer Chiefs in the reverse leg of the CAF Champions League quarterfinal clash at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The country’s envoys need to stamp at least a 5-0 victory to sail into the semifinals of the biggest clubs football showpiece on the continent. This comes after they lost 4-0 in the first leg tie held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg, South Africa last Saturday hence, Simba have a big load over their shoulders to overcome before they can go through. It will certainly be a do or die mission for Tanzania envoys Simba in today’s encounter, whose aggregate winner will match to the league’s semifinals. Simba will therefore step in its home ground with determination to overturn the results. The Reds have not lost hope as the club’s Head Coach Didier Gomes Da Rosa believes nothing is impossible in their bid to overturn the deficit. “For sure we will change our strategy but what I can tell the players and staff is that nothing is impossible.” “We believe in ourselves and I am optimistic we can win the match, we must play with a big heart like men… nothing is impossible, we can do the unthinkable,” said the French tactician. It’s possible, as Simba back in 1979, were able to overturn a 4-0 deficit against Zambian club Mufulira Wanderers in Dar es Salaam. This remains the biggest comeback in the history of the CAF Champions League, as Simba went ahead to win 5-0 in the secondleg clash away in Lusaka. Statistics show that Simba holds the undefeated record in their last 12 home matches they have played in the CAF Champions League. Fully aware of the toughness of the game, coach Gomes noted that his players and all the technical staff are committed to post good results but insisted that they have to correct all mistakes the team committed in the first leg. “For sure, in the first half of our game with Kaizer Chiefs, we committed many mistakes especially defensively. “We must change our strategy and as you know, nothing is impossible in this world. We believe in ourselves and believe that we can win the match. To return the situation, we must play with big hearts,” said Gomes. He added that everybody at Simba will be committed to play his or her part for the sake of getting good results and overcoming the previous situation. Moreover, Gomes pointed out that his side was inferior to challenge for aerial balls in the first leg battle, no wonder they conceded three goals due to that problem. “We have already worked on that setback and it will be very important for us to win aerial challenge on Saturday (today). We have the power to turn things around,” he cemented. On his part, the club’s Information Officer Haji Manara said what gives them belief that they can achieve the unthinkable in today’s match is morale among Simba fans. “We know that if each player in the Simba squad will be 100 per cent fit tomorrow (today), the chances to score more than five goals will be high. Kaizer Chief Head Coach Gavin Hunt noted that they remain focused to protect their first leg victory. “My biggest gripe in the last 10 minutes was that even if it became 4-1, they could get a sniff…I think we are going to try, if we can score one there then it really, but I mean that is going to be easier said than done.” “They will certainly raise their game, they are a big club and they have got a lot of pride to play for, so I am sure they will come out with a huge, different mentality and everything else that goes with it,” he added. Despite their confidence Kaizer Chiefs anticipate that the game will be tough. Kaizer Chiefs who arrived safely via Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) on Thursday.