THE Commission for Mediation and Arbitration (CMA) has ordered the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA) to pay its former Director of Corporate Affairs, Ms Ningishu Mollel, over 660m/- for allegedly terminating her contract of employment. According to the CMA Award given by Arbitrator M. S. Mbena recently, Ms Mollel, the applicant, had a special five-year contract before she was fired and had three years left. Therefore, he said, according to the law, the applicant was entitled to be paid for the remaining time on her contract. It is alleged that EWURA, the respondent, terminated the contract in question for not confirming her in the new position of employment she had applied for due to vetting responses made by other institutions while she was on probation period. However, in the decision, the Arbitrator said, “It does not click into the mind of a person to work for more than two years and then to be vetted and found to be unsuitable. If that position is sensitive, which is true, why shouldn't that person be vetted first and then be evaluated if he is qualified or otherwise?” There were two main issues the Arbitrator took into consideration to determine such labour dispute after hearing the parties in the matter. They include whether the dispute was for dismissal or non confirmation of employment services. Another issue related to whether the respondent decision to terminate the employment of the applicant for not confirming her due to vetting responses was valid. In the determination of the issues in question, the Arbitrator ruled that since the parties had entered into a five-year special contract, what the employer did was in breach of the contract in question on the question of time limit. “I dare to say in this case that not only the respondent has not proved but has also not raised any reason that led to the serious decision to dismiss the applicant from her employment. The act of dismissing her due to vetting which did not mention her weaknesses and shortcomings is not valid,” the Arbitrator said. The applicant was dismissed for a reason that did not exist and if there was such a reason, she had the right to know it in detail to determine the seriousness of the reason compared to her responsibilities. On that point, the Arbitrator concluded that the reason for dismissal was not proved. “The way the respondent acted meant that the vetting authority was the one that led to the dismissal of the applicant. It is the interpretation of this Commission that employment relations are between the employer and the employee and not the other authorities that conducted the vetting,” he said.  The arbitrator pointed out that after the employer had received the vetting result, they were supposed to inform the applicant and give her a chance to express or defend herself before imposing the punishment, and that she had the right to be given a copy of the investigation or vetting to know the offence. “Dismissing the applicant using vetting results that were not given to her amounts to depriving her constitutional right of being heard. This is a natural right the Commission, like all other courts, will look at with a close eye to ensure it is observed by any decision-making body, including employers,” he said. The applicant was employed by the respondent as Finance and Administration Manager in 2009 until November 17, 2013 when she started acting as Director of Corporate Affairs. Such a position was advertised and the applicant applied and was successful. According to her testimony, vetting was conducted before she was given a letter of employment and signed a five-year contract for the new position where one of the conditions was a six-month probation period, which could be extended to another six months if she did not qualify. What led to the dispute was the employer's decision to terminate the contract by dismissing the applicant because of the so-called result of another vetting conducted and giving results that the applicant did not qualify for the new post. 