Yesterday I was looking at my old photo album, and my gaze lingered on a skinny, tall guy of almost 20 years, with a sorry imitation of an afro hairstyle and very ugly shoes….. the shoes were ugly. The shoes caught my interest for a brief moment, because they had very high soles and very funny shape, and the trouser the young fellow was wearing had consumed enough material at the bottom to make another pair. The young man was grinning at the camera, and his shirt front had more than enough buttons open, revealing a soft chest without a single hair on it. It took me a minute to realize that the young man on the picture was none other than yours truly, and it opened a flood gate of memories and nostalgia. It made me remember when I was in high school, and how we would smoke pieces of cigarettes in the toilet, and how we could scale a wall high enough to qualify for a prison wall simply because there was a beauty waiting on the other side. Those were the days when our idea of having fun included stealing the neighbors chicken and terrorizing parents because they knew we had very nasty ideas concerning their innocent daughters. Skipping along on the album brought me to another picture, and this time the same young man had a trace of a moustache, and once again he was laughing at the camera, but this time he was holding a flower. What caught my interest was the young girl who was standing next to this male species. She was pretty in a mysterious way, and she had a blushing look on her face. Mama Boyi, the village belle those days, had a serious look on her face, and it was obvious that the transformation over the years was drastic, because looking at the young, fresh girl on the picture, it was hard to believe that she could hurt a fly and a possess a mouth that could put a veteran taarab singer to shame. Looking at the picture, it was hard to believe that some years later, this innocent being on the picture could wield a frying pan with such expertise and land it with stunning accuracy on an unfortunate head…...mostly mine. The picture made me remember the day it was taken, when I was in my early 20s and had no care in the world, and how I had caused her father sleepless and torturous nights as I threw stones at their iron sheet roof any time I wanted to see her, which ranged from early in the morning to the wee Nicodemus hours. It was the second day I was meeting with her, and my young soul was expectant. Those days a girl could literally blush when you were seducing her, and mama Boyi was no different. Those days a girl could chew her nails with such alacrity as she stole glances at you, while others could draw a map of Kariakoo with their bare toes…...Mama Boyi did all those and more at once. I remembered the first day I met her and I started hitting on her. The sad part is that she was standing next to a young tree, and by the time I was ready to escort her back, the unfortunate tree stood there without a single leaf, because as I was laying my future plans to her, she was busy plucking the leaves and stealing shy glances at me, while her bare toes were furiously drawing a map of Mbagala. And then my eyes came across another picture in which the pretty young girl in the previous picture had a heavy stomach, the results of our labor of love, and this time she was grinning like a person who had just won the lottery. And then there was another picture of a chubby baby in a pram, holding tightly to a feeding bottle full of milk, the smile on the baby’s face was toothless and adorable. Looking at the innocent baby, I reflected on the years, and how that baby had disappeared to oblivion, and in its place a domestic thug who has a reputation of using and smoking anything illegal took its place…there is nothing adorable left on my son. And to prove that indeed the boy is a qualified domestic thug who is also supposed to be my son, I looked up from the album and saw him across the room, and the fixed gaze on my phone which was on the table told me that if I was not careful, it will disappear like its predecessors. I suddenly remembered how I spent sleepless nights because the domestic thug, at that time a sweet baby, thought it was a great idea to sleep during the day and making terrible noise at night. “Hebu amka baba, this boy is driving me nuts, and if I am not careful he will suck me dry, and please don’t wake me up unless he is asleep, nadhani tumeelewana!” I remember mama Boyi telling me those days, shattering my peaceful slumber at that moment. And then I saw a picture which made me remember the day mama Boyi started using the frying pan. The picture was taken during Easter holidays of that year, and I had gone out with friends to have drinks. I came home feeling like king Solomon himself, and in my drunken state, I forgot the door to the bedroom and went to sleep in the kitchen instead. The next thing I remembered was a very bright flash and a loud bang, and immediately all sorts of birds started singing in my head. I regained consciousness three hours later. Mama Boyi had heard me entering the house, but after one hour when she did not see me in the bedroom, she decided to get out of bed and go look for me, and that is when she came across me, sleeping peacefully on top of the freezer. When efforts to wake me proved futile, she looked for the nearest thing to jolt me awake, and her eyes saw the frying pan……….it is funny, because from that day onwards, she has become a master at wielding it, and as for me, sometimes I miss the sting of it on my bald head!