TANZANIA People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam have challenged professional golfers across the country to improve their standards to match those of top East African Community (EAC) opponents. Lugalo chairman Michael Luwongo said this during the presentation ceremony of the first ever NMB Lugalo Pros Tour competition at the club course over the weekend. He explained: “This competition is a catalyst for the players to invest on practices and continue to develop talent and ensure Tanzania has professional players whose standards are high so as to build the best team that can bring home fame.” “Tanzania has not yet received a good representation for professional players when it comes to international competitions,” he said adding that Lugalo is ready to work with athletes and ensure they put in place a competitive team. “We never hear your thoughts and plan. Our door is always open, hope we are not late,” he told local golfers. John Bosco, a Professional Golf Tanzania Association (PGTA) Chairman acknowledged all challenges and said they are ready to work on them. He said the association is still young, but has ambition to support country development and thanks the club for tireless support. Lugalo captain Japhet Masai congratulated the players for taking part in the tournament despite the rainy weather challenge. The competition saw hosts' Frank Mwinuka emerging champion after carded aggregate two-over 146 (76,71) in the NMB and Simba Courier sponsored event. Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) Elisante Lambris and Nuru Mollel hit two shots 148 each to finish at second and third positions respectively in the table of 19 professional players across the country. The Club was also kind enough to invite amateurs and juniors who responded well in the 18 holes battle as over 100 took part. In the juniors’category Salehe Ramadhan carded 75 net points to win a title as Shufaa Twalib finished second with 79 net points. Laurent Sangawe emerged overall winner with 71 net points, Division A title went to Marius Kajuna with 75 net point, while in the second position was Elius Katabaze. In Division B the winner was Kiki Ayonga with 74 net points, and Ernest Sengeu finished second with 76 net points. Prosper Nambaya took the Division C title carded 75, as Vitalis Magale settled second. Senior category won by Julius Mbilinyi on countback over second placed Nada Magwe after they tied with 75 net points each. The lady’s title went to Maryanne Mugo, while Zainab Zuberi finished ladies top with 70 net points and Sara Dennis was second