THERE was a time the Chinese brought fear in the hearts of many when they announced that a piece of their spacecraft is on the loose, heading towards earth at a very high speed. Kitu kimeachia yaani. They told us that because it disintegrated from the main rocket, they did not have any control over it, yaani kitu kinashuka chenyewe kama gari la wizi, hurtling towards earth at terrible speed. The fear shifted to Africa soon afterwards when they said that they expect it to make an impact somewhere in Africa, lakini hawana uhakika kitu kitafumua wapi exactly. And then later they said wait a minute, tumekifuatilia kitaanguka somewhere in Sudan, so a cheeky reporter told the Sudanese people that they should keep their eyes focused in the sky, yaani wakae wakiangalia juu ili wakikiona wajue cha kufanya. Luckily, they said later that the piece of the rocket landed somewhere in Sudan, but fortunately it landed in the ocean, kwa hiyo haikua na madhara yoyote. Our Muslim brothers and sisters have just concluded the end of their holy month of Ramadan, and I know all of you are aware how most of them were busy training their eyes in the sky, not looking for another piece of a tumbling rocket, but this time for sighting the moon, walitaka wawe wa kwanza kuuona mwezi. Sighting of the moon automatically means that Ramadan is officially over, and that after the celebrations of Eid, life should go back to normal, maisha yanarudi kama kawaida. I am a devout Christian, but I highly respect the Islam religion, and I know just like Christianity, Islam preach peace, tolerance, respect and self-control, which is exactly what religion is supposed to do, kutuwekea misimamo ya maisha. Fasting for 30 days during the holy month is a very noble thing, because it is a time to reflect on your life and your spirituality, a time to bring yourself closer to Allah, ni jambo zuri sana kusema ukweli. Catholics have their own version, and is called quaresma, which means they observe 40 days of fasting, nayo pia maana yake ni ile ile kama ramadhani, bringing yourself closer to God. Sasa buana, shida iko sehemu moja tu, fasting and bringing yourself closer to your maker is a very good thing, yaani ni kitu kizuri mno, but my point is, do we really need just 30 or 40 days for that? Tuache unafiki na kudanganyana, when the fasting comes to an end, some people behave as if God does not exist at all, yaani ni kama hawamjui Mungu kabisaaaa! Immediately after finishing the fast, some people start behaving like animals, yaani hapo ni anasa kwenda mbele, as if the whole month of Ramadan did not mean anything. Kuna watu watakasirika lakini lazima ukweli usemwe, living a holy life should not be confined to 30 or 40 days, it should be a lifestyle, whether you like it or not. Haiwezekani mwezi mzima you behave as if you can never hurt a fly, but immediately after you start misbehaving as if you have a valid license from God to do so, ni jambo la ajabu na la kusikitisha sana. In this scenario I am talking to both men and women, hakuna ninaemuacha hapa, your actions after finishing the fast are despicable, some of you, and you should do something about it. When the fast was still in its infant stages, I remember I went to a certain spot for a meal and a drink or two, and I found the place almost deserted, which got me worried. But the owner, after inquiring, told me that it is normal during that time, aliniambia kipindi cha ramadhani na quaresma biashara ni mbaya sana, wateja hawapo. I remember last year’s Eid celebrations, yaani ilikua ni vurugu, people were drinking themselves silly, fornication was at the highest level, and generally people were behaving like animals, ilikua ni aibu sana kwa kweli. Both Islam and Christianity requires us to exercise self-control, sio kujizuia kwa muda and then you go back to living like you don’t have any conscious, ni mambo ya ajabu sana. According to my limited knowledge of Islam, I know that the main aim of Ramadan is not to remain hungry and thirsty for a full day, but instead it is a month in which Muslims try to overcome their desires and give up all the bad habits, change their lifestyle routine and pray as much as they can, which to me, as I said earlier, is a very noble thing, ni kitu kizuri sana nawaambia. I also know that after Ramadan, some definitely try to maintain the same schedule as the one they followed in the holy month of Ramadan, but slowly some fall prey to their desires and wishes, which puts them back to where they were before the month of Ramadan, or in a place even worse. Kusema ukweli ni hali ya kusikitisha sana, because that is when the bars and entertainment spots overflow, and guest houses are fully packed…..msiniangalie kama hamnijui, you know what I am talking about. Hivi kumaanisha kwamba ulivyojinyima ilikua ni shoo tu au? Does it mean that you can behave for only 30 or 4 days in a whole year? Ni mambo ya kukaa na kutafakari. Someone was even found in a hotel room locked with someone’s wife, mchana kweupe, mpaka unajiuliza hivi 30 or 40 days is such a long time mpaka mtu unakua ni kama umetoka kifungoni? Yaani people behave as if they have just been released from prison, where they were denied sex and alcohol for years, kumbe ni siku chache tu. This I know is a character that if we so desire, we can easily get rid of, nawaambia kweli kabisa, because it is not a sickness, it is something which is in our own control, it is just a matter of making the right decision, it as simple as that.